<|startoftext|>
[CONTEXT]: A secure line of credit yield a low interest rate because if you default on it , the lender simply ha you on the hook with whatever you use to secure the line of credit . i.e . if you have a HELOC and you default , they 'll foreclose on you and take your house . An unsecured line of credit doe n't have the same type of clout for take your stuff . In short , a secure line of credit ha a low interest rate because it 's high risk for you and low risk for the lender .Defined Benefit - the benefit you receive when you retire be define e.g . $ 500 a month if you retire at age 65 . It be up to the plan administrator to manage the pension fund , and ensure that there be enough money to cover the benefit base on the life expectancy of the retiree . Defined Contribution - the amount you contribute to the plan be define . The benefit you receive at retirement depend on how well the investment do over the year .ETFs offer the flexibility of stock while retain many of the benefit of mutual fund . Since an ETF be an actual fund , it ha the diversification of it potentially many underlie security . You can find ETFs with stock at various market cap and style category . You can have bond or mix ETFs . You can even get ETFs with equal or fundamental weight . In short , all the variety benefit of mutual fund . ETFs be typically much le expensive than mutual fund both in term of management fee ( expense ratio ) and taxable gain . Most of them be not actively manage ; instead they follow an index and therefore have a low turnover . A mutual fund may actively trade and , if not balance with a loss , will generate capital gain that you pay tax on . An ETF will produce gain only when shift to keep inline with the index or you yourself sell . As a reminder : while expense ratio always matter , capital gain and dividend do n't matter if the ETF or mutual fund be in a tax-advantaged account . ETFs have no load fee . Instead , because you trade it like a stock , you will pay a commission . Commissions be straight , up-front and perfectly clear . Much easy to understand than the various way fund might charge you . There be no account minimum to entry with ETFs , but you will need to buy complete share . Only a few place allow partial share . It be generally hard to dollar-cost average into an ETF with regular automate investment . Also , like trade stock , you can do those fancy thing like sell short , buy on margin , option , etc . And you can pay attention to the price fluctuation throughout the day if you really want to . Things to make you pause : if you buy ( no-load ) mutual fund through the parent company , you 'll get them at no commission . Many brokerage have No Transaction Fee ( NTF ) agreement with company so that you can buy many fund for free . Still look out for that expense ratio though ( which be probably pay for that NTF advantage ) . As sort of a middle grind : index fund can have very low expense ratio , track the same index a an ETF , can be tax-efficient or tax-managed , free to purchase , easy to dollar-cost average and easy to automate/understand . Further read : Fund v ETFBoth type of plan offer a tax benefit . A traditional IRA allow you to invest pre-tax money into the account and it grow tax free . Once you withdraw the money it then get tax a though it be income base on the amount you withdraw for that calendar year . A Roth IRA ha you invest post-tax money and also grow tax free . However , when you make withdraw in retirement that money be then tax free . Neither plan be right for everybody . If you have a very high income now and plan on be in a small tax bracket late when you 'll be make withdraw then the traditional IRA be good . If you will be in a high bracket late , then the Roth IRA will serve you more . Depending on the way you manage your retirement invest you can likely invest in both if you be unsure a to which would be good . The same type of investment should be able to be nest within each type .I would highly recommend the book `` four pillar of invest '' by William J Bernstein . This be by far , in my humble opinion , the best text on asset allocation . In short , you will need a variety of equity investment , some bond , and even some cash ( or money market fund ) . Assuming you be design your retirement income via a combination of financial vehicle , I would put the least tax-efficient investment ( think fix-income product and other that be be treat the same way by CRA ) in RRSP and others in non-registered account ( you be only tax on 50 % of your capital gain and can use past loss to reduce future tax payable ) . If you be just start out , put everything in RRSP be not a bad idea either . You can always transform your portfolio ( i.e . across multiple account ) a you have more money to invest . The key here be to make sure you have the right mix of asset class that will best balance risk and return for you unique situation , and annual re-balance to make the ratio stay true . For example , if you can get to your retirement goal with a mere 3-5 % annualized growth in your portfolio - I would go 70 % bond , 20 % equity ( in large cap ETFs ) , and 10 % cash/MMF now and shift it into heavy emphasis on bond a your get close to your retirement . If you need 5-9 % growth to retire , you would want to do 60 % equity ( in large cap ETFs ) , 30 % bond , and 10 % cash/MMF ( I do n't advise 70 % equity right now , a the market be still volatile , and depend on who you listen to , this mess might go on for another 10 year or so , which be too close to your retirement ) . If you need more than 10 % of growth to get to your retirement , you will have to either re-assess your retirement goal or go all-in on equity - WARNING , just a my poker analogy suggest , you be gamble if you be do all equity , but it 's the only way you can get > 10 % annualized return over 10-15 year timeframe . If any of the above sound confuse to you even after you read the book , please do engage a fee-only financial planner ( i.e . not those that get pay commission when they sell you something ) to help you map it out . Hope this help ,If you be look to build wealth , lease be a bad idea . But so be buy a new car . All car lose value once you buy them . New car lose anywhere between 30-60 % of their value in the first 4 year of ownership . Buying a good quality , use car be the way to go if you be look to build wealth . And keep the car for a while be also desirable . Re-leasing every three year be no way to build wealth . The American Car Payment be probably the big factor hold many people back from build wealth . Do n't fall into the trap - buy a use car and drive it for a long a you can until the maintenance get too pricey . Then upgrade to a good use car , etc . If you can not buy a car outright with cash , you can not afford it . Period .Term be the way to go . Whole/universal be basically a combo of term and save , so buy term life insurance and invest the difference in cost yourself . You should make a lot more that way ( a far a save go ) than by buy whole life . By the time term life get too expensive to be worth ( when you 're a lot old ) you will have enough save to become `` self-insured '' . Just do n't touch the save : ) You really only need insurance when there be income to replace and debt to cover - house/mortgage , kids/school , job income , etc .Since your child be 2 , he ha a long time horizon for investment . Assuming the save will be use at age 19 , that 's 17 year . So , I think your best bet be to invest primarily in equity ( i.e . stock-based fund ) and inside an RESP . Why equity ? Historically , equity have outperform debt and cash over long time period . But , equity can be volatile in the short term . So , do purchase some fixed-income investment ( e.g . 30 % government bond and money market fund ) , and do also spread your equity money around a well -- e.g . buy some international fund in addition to Canadian fund . Rebalance every year , and a your child get close to university age , start shift some asset out of equity and into fixed-income , to reduce risk . You do n't want the portfolio torpedo by an economic crisis the year before the money be require ! Next , why inside an RESP ? First , the Canadian government will kick in a 20 % match on your first $ 2500 contribute each year , up to age 17 , to a lifetime maximum of $ 7200 . That $ 500/year , be call Canadian Education Savings Grant ( CESG ) and it add up . Second , any investment earn inside the RESP be shelter from tax until withdraw . Tax-sheltered compound growth add up . Third , qualify withdrawal make by your kid when they go to post-secondary education be tax in their hand , not yours -- and generally that mean a good chunk of it be withdraw tax-free if there 's no other income on your kid 's tax return at the time . Finally ... what if your kid doe n't attend post-secondary education ? First , you should probably get a Family RESP , not a Group RESP . Group RESPs have strict rule and may forfeit contribution if your kid doe n't attend . Have a look at Choosing the Right RESP and Canadian Capitalist 's post The Pros and Cons of Group RESP Plans . In a Family plan , if none of your kid end up attend post-secondary education , then you forfeit the government match money -- the feed get it back through a 20 % surtax on withdrawal . But , you 'll have the option of roll over remain fund into your RRSP , if you have room .In short - if you ca n't get the job without incorporate , then incorporate ! Some client will require you to be incorporate ( which be why I do it 10 year ago ) . Essentially , for them , it 's a way of distance themselves from you to ensure they be not responsible for any monies if you do n't pay your tax . For you , there be also this idea of distance company asset from your personal asset . If they be not require you to incorporate , you can simply act a a sole proprietorship . A good place to start read up could be the site below ( for Canada/Ontario ) : Canada Business http : //sbinfocanada.about.com/ http : //sbinfocanada.about.com/od/incorporation/Incorporating_A_Business_In_Canada.htm http : //sbinfocanada.about.com/cs/startup/a/incorporatadv.htm When I register , I simply buy a book at Grand & Toy , with all the require form for Ontario . These form would also be available at a local Government service centre . You walk in , give the government money , and shortly thereafter you be incorporate . There be a number of others thing that be require ( have a minute book , write resolution , create share , set up a bank account , etc ) - all discuss in the guide For Ontario you can start here : http : //www.ontario.ca/en/services_for_business/index.htm At a high level , there be some cost for be incorporate , and some tax save . At a minimum , cost would include : Incorporation cost - from memory this be a few hundred dollar Name Search around $ 50 ( you be not require to pick a name , and can simply use the number company from the incorporation , so this be optional ) Bank Account in the business 's name ( RBC be good for new company a they have the low charge currently - see http : //www.redflagdeals.com forum for a more indepth discussion . You may need the help of an account to help set thing up , but it 's quite easy to maintain all the record , etc that be require . Some other minor thing I enjoy be write myself expense cheque so that I get money back immediately ( and effectively only pay 60 % of the cost after write it off in the company ) . I can decide how much to pay myself and push income from year to year .While a seemingly simple question , next year may be different . Interestingly , the 2010 contribution limit for 401 ( k ) and IRA plan be tie to the rate of inflation . PF blogger fivecentnickel.com post the follow article , 401 ( k ) Limits to Decrease in 2010 ? , which mention : Inflation ha be negative since March so , unless it pick up between now and October , the IRS will have no choice but to reduce contribution limit . If this happen , the contribution limit would fall from $ 16,500 to $ 16,000 with catchup contribution fall from $ 5,500 to $ 5,000 . [ Emphasis mine ] There 's also a good article at CNNMoney.com , New rule may mandate low 401 ( k ) contribution limit in 2010 . Check it out , too . The final limit be suppose to be announce some time in October ( i.e . late this month . ) I 'll post a follow-up when I read about the announcement . UPDATE : The final 2010 401 ( k ) contribution limit be announce by the IRS ; see this IRS press release : IR-2009-94 , Oct. 15 , 2009 [ ... ] The limitation that be adjust by reference to Section 415 ( d ) will remain unchanged for 2010 . This be because the cost-of-living index for the quarter end September 30 , 2009 , be le than the cost-of-living index for the quarter end September 30 , 2008 , and , follow the procedure under the Social Security Act for adjust benefit amount , any decline in the applicable index can not result in a reduce limitation . For example , the limitation under Section 402 ( g ) ( 1 ) on the exclusion for elective deferral describe in Section 402 ( g ) ( 3 ) will be $ 16,500 for 2010 , which be the same amount a for 2009 . [ ... ] In other word , the 2010 employee contribution / deferral limit for a 401 ( k ) plan be to be the same a in 2009 : $ 16,500 . If you be age 50 or over , additional catch-up contribution for a 401 ( k ) plan remain limit to $ 5,500 . For Individual Retirement Accounts , the contribution limit for 2010 be also to be the same a in 2009 : $ 5,000 . If you be age 50 or over , additional catch-up contribution for an IRA remain limit to $ 1,000 .If this wa a public corporation ( stock ) and the investment wa make in a non-registered account , then you can claim a capital loss . Capital loss be claim against capital gain ( not income ) , and can be carry back 3 year or carry forward indefinitely . Here 's an article I 've write on how to claim capital loss that may help .According the the Canadian-US income tax treaty this vary depend on the type of investment but the maximum be 15 % . This can normally be claim a a tax credit up to the maximum of 15 % . If a company be withhold more tax than this it be possible to apply for a reimbursement of the difference : Canadian resident seek to reclaim overwithheld tax may look to the procedure under U.S. Treasury Regulation Section 1.1461-2 ( a ) ( 2 ) for reimbursement or Treasury Regulation Section 1.1461-2 ( a ) ( 3 ) for set-off of the overwithheld tax .My father impart this advice to me when I wa a teenager , and it ha n't fail me yet . > Pay yourself first What this mean be that the first `` bill '' you pay should always be your save . Preferably in a way that automatically come out of your paycheck or account without require you to take an active step to make it happen . I save a ton of money , but I be no more discipline than anyone else . I just realize that over the year of progress in my career that I gradually get high and high salary , yet never have a substantial increase in the money I have leftover in my bank at the end of the month despite the fact that I make about 8x the money I use to live reasonably comfortably on . Therein be the point , we spend whatever money we see , so you almost have to hide it from yourself . First , participate to the full in your company 's 401k if they offer it . After a while you will adjust naturally to the net take home pay and wo n't miss the save you be accumulate . Absent that , or in addition to that , set up a separate bank or investment account and arrange an automatic transfer from your check account every month . Then set up automatic invest in CD 's or some other less-liquid-than-cash investment so you it be just enough hassle to get at the money that you wo n't do it on a whim . It sound too simple , but it work .The most popular method of do a debt snowball be to to pay your debt in order from small to large , regardless of their interest rate . The idea behind this be that you get a boost from see progress , and stick with it . It 's popular for a reason -- it 's very effective . However sometimes people just ca n't stand the think of pay extra interest . If you 're very highly motivate and able to stick with something long term despite see only a small amount of visible progress at a time , you can do the debt snowball from high interest rate to low interest rate . It seem that people tend to stick with the first method more though , and oftentimes the difference in interest rate be not really that great . ( Especially if you hit the debt hard . ) In either case , it work like this : You organize your debt in the desire order . You pay minimum payment on all debt . You pay a much extra a possible each month to the first debt in the list until it be go . Once the first debt be pay off , you add the amount you have be pay to that debt to the next debt in the list , and throw a much money at that debt a possible . Repeat the process until all debt be repay . You can organize your debt yourself , or you can use tool like the What 's the Cost snowball calculator , the Pay Off Debt app , or Dave Ramsey 's Total Money Makeover ( book , apps , system ) . Disclaimer : Answer author run the company that publish the Pay Off Debt app .The above be very true , but the big bang for your buck can also be in the RESP , assume you qualify for the grant of 20 % per year ... it 's hard to beat free money from the government ... in this account , your investment grow , and the growth and grant be tax in the hand of the child when it be withdraw . ( Normally , they dont have much income at this point , so pay little or no tax ) However , you do not get any income tax deduction or tax break at the time you make the deposit .For pure retirement save , with an expect tax bracket drop at retirement , then RRSP 's make the most sense . So if you be in the 29 % bracket ( ~40 % when you take the provincial component ) then you invest $ 1000 , and save $ 400 in tax . When you withdraw it late on , you might be in the 26 % bracket ( 36 % with provincial ) so you would owe $ 360 in tax . However , if you be young , and expect to buy a house in the future , TFSAs make more sense . Presumably , you have n't reach your high earn potential , so any tax save will be at the low rate . With a TFSA , you can get the benefit of all your money , and it earn without penalty , a the tax ha already be pay . I personally be in the middle bracket , and be use a mix approach . 50 % to TFSA , and 50 % to RRSP . I 've put my high-risk in TFSA , and my low-risk in RRSPs . That way I get any windfall tax free . There be one thing that a TFSA be perfect for : Emergency Funds . I recommend that everyone have a $ 5000 CASH TFSA . It wo n't earn much , but it 's not a tempt to borrow from a a regular save account , but the fund be available in an emergency , usually within the same day .We be member at costco , but decide not to renew . Meat wa a definite cost save , and laundry detergent a well . Diapers use to be a huge save , but loblaws seem to be price thing good now . We do by a bunch of Kirkland brand diaper and wipe before the membership end . The problem we have wa that you just get too much stuff - you save a bunch on that laundry detergent that you buy once every two year , or the chicken you have in your freezer forever . In Canada , the basic membership be $ 55 and we could not be certain we make that back , nor that we be n't over consume a we walk the aisle . I have hear that the more expensive membership ( $ 100 ) which give you 2 % back on purchase be a good way to gauge your usage and determine if it be worth it . It also cost nothing to give it a try - their policy be a full refund at any time , so in theory you could go in on your 364th day and get a refund .I think the chance of them change the rule without grandfathering in people of retirement age ( pun intend ) be pretty small . The general rule of thumb on this issue seem to be to wait to get the full amount if you have sufficient resource that you do n't expect to need the money early . That be , unless you have some reason to not expect much longevity ( family history of die young , current medical condition , etc . ) Ultimately , however , this be a big financial decision that be best make with the help of a good financial adviser/actuary . There be a large number of variable to be consider .As a Canadian resident , the simple answer to your question be `` yes '' Having work a a tax auditor and a a Certified Financial Planner , you be require to file an income tax return because you have taxable employment income . All the employer be do be deduct it at source and remit it on your behalf . That doe not alleviate your need to file . In fact , if you do n't file you will be subject to a no file penalty . The one aspect you be miss be that taxpayer may be entitle to tax credit that may result in a refund to you depend on your personal situation ( e.g spousal or minor dependent ) . I hope this help .I just find this article discuss the merit or otherwise of premium bond that indicate they 're not really a good investment . There 's heavy positive spin put out about Premium Bonds , after all NS & I be government back , and they help generate government fund and cash flow . Yet the payout be much bad than many believe . You ’ re likely to win even le than the interest rate . The value of prize pay out be determine by an interest rate , which be currently 1.5 % , though it change , usually follow a change in Bank of England UK rate . This mean if you own every Premium Bond in existence , the amount win over a year would be equal to 1.5 % of what you put in . So very roughly , on average for every £100 put into Premium Bonds , you 'd expect a £1.50 annual return . Yet because of the way the prize be allocate , the majority of people will win much le than the interest rate anyway . There ’ s a full explanation of why this happen late , but for now you can use the Premium Bond Probability Calculator to see how likely you be to win an amount equal to the interest rate .Diversification be one aspect to this question , and Dr Fred touch on it relationship to risk . Another aspect be leverage : If you put money into pension it 's unleveraged , that be you invest £50,000 , and make 10 % . You have £55,000 . Another rental property be likely to be leverage . You put in £50,000 , and borrow £150,000 to buy a £200,000 property . If the market rise 10 % you make £20,000 so have £70,000 . On the flipside if the market drop 10 % you lose £20,000 . So it again come down to your appetite for risk . A far factor be that if you be successfully rent out your property , someone else be effectively buy that asset for you , or at least pay the interest on the mortgage . Just bear in mind that if you get into a situation where you have 10 property and the rent on them all fall at the same time a the property market crash ( sound familiar ? ) then you can be leave on the hook for a lot of interest payment and your asset may not cover your liability .It look like the HST will be in effect in Ontario on July 1st , 2010 . As to whether it will replace GST with HST for all service , it look like some sector may get special treatment : Ontario may exempt mutual fund from HST ( National Post ) . But it doe n't look final yet . However , I would suggest that most service-based business in Ontario need to prepare to start charge 13 % HST instead of 5 % GST . It will be the law . On the `` good '' side of the new harmonize tax , it look like certain good will still be exempt from the provincial portion . Here 's a quote from the Ontario Budget 2009 News Release : '' Books , diaper , child 's clothe and footwear , child 's car seat and car booster seat , and feminine hygiene product would be exempt from the provincial portion of the single sale tax . '' Here 's some additional information on the introduction of the HST , from the province : General Transitional Rules for Ontario HST . And finally , another interest article from the Ottawa Business Journal : Preparing For Ontario Sales Tax Harmonization – It 's Not Too Early UPDATE : I just receive an insert from Canada Revenue Agency include with my quarterly GST statement . Titled `` Harmonization of the Sales Tax in Ontario and British Columbia '' , it contain a section title `` What this mean for you '' ( a in , you the business owner ) . Here 's an excerpt : [ ... ] All Ontario and B.C . registrant would need to update their account and point-of-sale system to accomodate the change in rate and new point-of-sale rebate for the implementation date of July 1 , 2010 . The harmonization of the sale tax in Ontario and B.C . may affect the file requirement of registrant outside of these two province . Registrants will report their HST accord to their current GST file frequency . As a result of the harmonization , there will be change to the rebate for house and public service body . More information will be release a it become available . Visit the CRA web site often , at www.cra.gc.ca/harmonization , for the most up-to-date information on the harmonization of the sale tax and how it may affect you . [ ... ] Last , I find some very detail information on the HST here : NOTICE247 - Harmonized Sales Tax for Ontario and British Columbia - Questions and Answers on General Transitional Rules for Personal Property and Services . Chances be anything you want to know be in there .You would report the overall income on your T1 general income tax return , and use form T2125 to report income and expense for your business . Form T2125 be like a mini income-statement where you report your gross revenue and subtract off expense . Being able to claim legitimate expense a a deduction be an important tax benefit for business big and small . In term of your second question , you generally need to register for a business number at least once you cross the threshold for GST / HST . If you earn $ 30,000/year ( or spread over four consecutive quarter ) then charge GST / HST be mandatory ; see GST/HST Mandatory registration . There be other condition a well , but the threshold be the principal one . You can also register voluntarily for GST / HST even if you 're below that threshold ; see GST/HST Voluntary registration . The advantage of register voluntarily be that you can claim input tax credit ( ITC ) on any GST that your business pay , and remit only the difference . That save your business money , especially if you have a lot of expense early on . Finally , in term of Ontario specifically ( saw that on your profile ) , you might want to check out Ontario Sole Proprietorship . There be specific case in which you need to register a business : e.g . specific type of business , or if you plan on do business under a name other than your own . Finally , you may want to consider whether incorporate might be good for you . Here 's an interest article that compare Sole Proprietorship Versus Incorporation . Here 's another article , Choosing a business structure , from the feed .Do you mean that you 've be deem a non-resident for tax purpose but that you 've return to Canada ? Do you intend to re-establish residency ? As a non-resident , it may be difficult to obtain credit from any Canadian financial institution , and similarly lease a vehicle may be difficult a well . Have you investigate longer-term rental option ?The FDIC insure deposit up to $ 250,000 per depositor , per bank , for each ownership category . The ownership category be : Single Accounts Certain Retirement Accounts Joint Accounts Revocable Trust Accounts Irrevocable Trust Accounts Accounts Employee Benefit Plan Accounts Corporation/Partnership/Unincorporated Association Accounts Government Accounts You and a spouse could collectively have $ 750,000 of insure deposit at a single bank if you each have a single account , and a joint account together .Your employer obviously doe not understand Advanced EIC . The idea be for you to get MORE in your paycheck and get your earn income credit throughout the year instead of all at once . Go to this link on the IRS EITC Home Page It will tell what your employer need to do to give you EIC . Did you complete a W-5 to give to him ? Hopefully if you give him this link or print it out for him he will understand how to do this . If not , then you may need to report him to the IRS . Good Luck !Discount broke do not give advice regard investment whereas a full service broke will . If you 're comfortable do your own research and make your own investment decision then that would be where the discount broke would come in . If not , a full service broke be most likely the type you should go through .Assuming you be pay into and eligible to collect regular Employment Insurance benefit for the job in question , I do n't see how own a side business would , by itself , affect your ability to participate in the workshare program . Many people own dormant business ( $ 0 revenue / $ 0 income ) , or business with insignificant net income ( e.g . a small table at the flea market , or a fledgling web-site with up-front cost and no ad revenue , yet ; - ) I think what matter be if your side business generate income substantial enough to put you over a certain threshold . Then you may be require to repay a portion of the EI benefit receive through the workshare program . On this issue , I find the follow article informative : How to make work-sharing work for you , from the Globe & Mail 's Report on Business site . Here 's a relevant quote : '' [ ... ] If you work elsewhere during the agreement , and earn more than an amount equal to 40 % of your weekly benefit rate , that amount shall be deduct from your work share benefit payable that week . [ ... ] '' The definitive source for information on the workshare program be the Service Canada web site . In particular , see the Work-Sharing Applicant Guide , which discus eligibility criterion . Section IV confirm the Globe article 's statement above : '' [ ... ] Earnings receive in any week by a Work-Sharing participant , from source other than Work-Sharing employment , that be in excess of an amount equal to 40 % or $ 75 ( whichever be great ) of the participant's weekly benefit rate , shall be deduct from the Work-Sharing benefit payable in that week . [ ... ] '' Finally , here 's one more interest article that discus the workshare program : Canada : Employment Law @ Gowlings - March 30 , 2009 .If you be still pay off debt , then you should have about $ 1000 in save and put all you can towards non-mortgage debt . If you do n't have any debt besides your mortgage , then add up all of your monthly expense include food , gas , utility and keep 3-6 month in liquid save . Whether you keep 3 or 6 month depend on how safe your income be . If you have a steady safe job , you might be safe with 3 month . But , if your employer be cut back or you be in a commission base job or self employ - then lean more towards 6 month expense . Congrats on your new home !Robert Kiyosaki 's be basically a get-rich quick author . But to answer your question : It be a sale pitch in disguise . See Marketplace 's report on a Kiyosaki seminar , which reveal that the free work shop be a sale pitch for a 3-day work shop which cost several hundred dollar . And the 3-day workshop be a sale pitch for `` advance '' train which can cost a much a $ 45,000 ( presumably in Canadian dollar , a the report wa do in Canada ) . He doe touch on some basic sound principle , but it 's mix with a lot of really bad ( and in some case illegal ) advice . You 'll do much good to invest your time and money in read material that be n't advertise via infomercial . Kiyosaki may well be rich , but it 's from sell his Rich Dad-branded material , not from invest in real estate , or any other investment portfolio See also John T. Reed 's guru rat , and his review of Kiyosaki 's book , Rich Dad , Poor Dad .At it simple level it 's an application of basic statistics/probability : Suppose you have n independent and identically distribute asset with the return on asset i denote R_i which ha mean m and variance s^2 ( same for all asset ) . You can easily weaken these assumption but I make them to simplify the exposition [ Square bracket show a numerical example with n=20 , m=8 % , s=2 % ] if you invest in one of these asset you expect to get a return of m [ 8 % ] with standard deviation s [ 2 % ] ( so you expect with probability 95 % ( approx ) to get a return between m-2 * s and m+2 * s. [ between 4 % and 12 % ] Now suppose you split your money equally among the n-assets . Your return be now R = ( 1/n ) \Sum { i=1 } ^n R_i your expect return be E ( R ) = ( 1/n ) \Sum { i=1 } ^n E ( R_i ) = ( 1/n ) \Sum { i=1 } ^n m = m [ 8 % ] the variance of your return be Var ( R ) = Var ( ( 1/n ) \Sum { i=1 } ^n R_i ) = ( 1/n^2 ) \Sum { i=1 } ^n Var ( R_i ) = n * s^2 / n^2 ) = s^2/n So , the standard deviation be SD ( R ) = Sqrt ( V ( R ) ) = s/Sqrt ( n ) [ 2 % /Sqrt ( 20 ) = 0.44 % ] Now , with 95 % probability we get a return between E ( R ) -2 * SD ( R ) and E ( R ) +2 * SD ( R ) [ between 7.12 % and 8.88 % ] . This interval be small than when we invest in the single asset , so in effect with this portfolio we be achieve the same return m [ 8 % ] but with low variance ( risk ) [ 0.44 % instead of 2 % ] . This be the result of diversification . You can assume the asset be not independent ( and most book exposition of this topic do indeed do that ) . In that case the calculation be modify because the variance of the portfolio now depend on the correlation between return , a doe the reduction in variance cause by the diversification . If asset be negatively correlate the result of the diversification will be more reduction in risk and vice versa . You can also assume the asset be not identically distribute and the above analysis doe not change too much . You might look for some reference on CAPM ( Capital Asset Pricing Model ) or portfolio theory but broadly these be base on what I have describe above - find the portfolio with minimum variance for a give return by invest proportionally in treasury bond and risky asset .Whether or not I trust them depend entirely on the personal finance application . In the case of Mint and Quicken , I would trust both . Always make sure to do plenty of research before submit any personal information to any source .See Reverse Mortgage from Wikipedia , the free encyclopedia : A reverse mortgage ( or lifetime mortgage ) be a loan available to senior , and be use to release the home equity in the property a one lump sum or multiple payment . The homeowner 's obligation to repay the loan be defer until the owner dy , the home be sell , or the owner leaf ( e.g. , into age care ) . In a conventional mortgage the homeowner make a monthly amortize payment to the lender ; after each payment the equity increase within his or her property , and typically after the end of the term ( e.g. , 30 year ) the mortgage ha be pay in full and the property be release from the lender . In a reverse mortgage , the home owner make no payment and all interest be add to the lien on the property . If the owner receive monthly payment , or a bulk payment of the available equity percentage for their age , then the debt on the property increase each month .Gail Vaz-Oxlade ha a great interactive budget on her website , www.gailvazoxlade.com . If you watch Til Debt Do Us Part , this spreadsheet will automatically tell you how much to put in your `` jar '' each week in each category too ! Good luck .I would definitely pay down the debt first . If it be go to take 15 year to do so , you probably need to allocate more money to pay down debt . Cut expense by go out to eat le , and keep spend to the bare necessity . You might even consider get a second job , just for pay down the debt . If that be n't enough , consider sell off some asset . You should be able to come up with a plan to be debt free ( exclude maybe a regular mortgage ) within 3-5 year . Once the only debt you have be a home mortgage , then it time to look at put money towards retirement again . Note , you should not take money out of a 401k or IRA to pay off debt . The cost for do so be nearly always too great .First off , I recommend that you determine your current Credit Card balance , and how long you expect it will take to pay it off . Figure out how much of your payment will be go towards the CC 's interest , and how much interest you will be pay in total . You need this info to make an inform decision . Now you can look at the Credit Card offer and compare rate . Figure out how much you will save by low your interest rate . Remember that with a low rate you can pay it off fast while make the same monthly payment . However , there be some thing to watch out for in the fine print of the offer : Balance transfer fee for the new card . You 'll usually get charge a fee of $ 50-100 , or a percentage of the balance . Make sure this fee doe n't exceed the interest rate save on your new card ! Is the rate for balance transfer temporary ? Will the interest rate on your balance go up after a few month ? If so , will you have it pay off by then ? Or will you be right back where you start ? If transfer the balance be go to save you a reasonable amount of money ( enough to make the hassle worth it ) , then you should probably do it , assume you be financially literate enough to understand how it all work . ( Do n't make a financial move you do n't understand . ) As for your concern : Having too many card and lose track . There be a legitimate concern there , but look at it this way : If your old card be n't competitive ( which it probably be n't if you 're transfer the balance elsewhere ) , then it 's probably time to close it . You do n't have to keep both card around . And if the old one be pay off , it can sit with zero balance for a while ( no payment to be make ) . Note that a new card be not a license to spend more ! You be get the new card to reduce your total debt a efficiently a possible ( by pay le interest ) . If you be worry that you will start buy thing with both card , then maybe this be n't a good idea . Having `` too much credit '' available . This be not a problem for most people . Is your FICO above 800 ? If not , do n't worry about it . What you should worry about be : Credit Utilization - What be the the total limit of all your credit card ? What be the total balance of all your credit card ? Divide these number to get your utilization percentage . If this get too high ( you be maxed out ) , it will hurt your score . Debt to Income Ratio - How much do you owe ( Credit Card , Car Loans , Mortgage ) versus how much you make ? If this number get too high , it look like you be in over your head . So , what will happen if you apply for a new card and transfer your balance ? Will your total debt change ? No . So your DTI ratio will stay the same . Will your Credit Utilization change ? That depend on the credit limit of the old card v new one , and whether or not you keep the old one open .A lot of whether or not use those type of card be worth it depend on how you use your credit card . If you use your credit card very often and pay it off in full each month , then often these card can be great for you . If you often leave a balance on the card then a card with a low interest rate would be good to focus on . I personally would not use any point card that have any actual fee with it . They already typically have a below average interest rate a it be . For u , we very rarely use our credit card . For utility we use e-checks and for most other thing we use a cash budget system . As a result , for u the low interest credit card be more important since we rarely would gain any worthwhile amount of point for use .http : //www.fdic.gov/deposit/deposits/index.html FDIC currently insure up to $ 250,000 . ( I would have put that a a comment to Jeffery but it say it wa lock . ) You do n't want to put all your egg in one basket . If you shop around , and keep shop all the time you can keep your account in a single place so long a that single place provide the best deal . Do n't have any loyalty to your bank institution because they do n't have any loyalty to you . Also , have lot of account mean you be familiar with lot of institution , so you be likely good at shop around . Things I consider . For few institution : Best rate Package deal , get big discount Better negotiation because you have much business with that bank Ease of manage account and summary statement Fewer phone call to make in the case of emergency For more institution : Less people know my full financial history Less danger if any single bank be compromise I can play bank offer off of each other ( price match or beat by 5 % ) More and vary account help with credit score ( I think )There be two level to consider here : Small amount ( To me , this mean $ 20-30 ) - Just do it , if they pay you back , everything be fine . If they do n't , it 's not go to kill your friendship . In the latter case , do n't harp on them about it just let it slide and do n't loan them such money again Larger amount - In general , do n't loan them money . If you can afford to lose the money just give it to them a a gift . I usually give them the money say something like `` If you need this money , just take it , if you want to pay me back , great . If not , that 's okay too '' . If you be n't prepare to say that , loan them money be probably not a good plan . That say , before loaning/giving anyone money ask yourself if it be good for them . If they have problem manage their money , or hold down a job , and you give them money , they be just go to come back for more late . In this type of situation , you should n't give/loan them money . But on the other hand , if a friend or family member ha hit a rough patch and you know they be the kind of person that will be on their foot again soon , and you have nothing to lose , give them the money .Yes , it 's true . The benefit in question be Canada 's Universal Child Care Benefit ( UCCB ) . The UCCB wa introduce in the 2006 Federal Budget . The UCCB provide `` all family with $ 100 per month for each child under age 6 . '' Benefits begin in July , 2006 . What 's confuse be how to apply for the UCCB . When UCCB wa introduce , there exist another benefit call the Canada Child Tax Benefit ( CCTB ) . When introduce UCCB , the government decide it would be more efficient to have a single application process for all child benefit . In order to get UCCB , you would apply under the exist application process for CCTB . Unfortunately : The application form for CCTB doe n't mention the UCCB at all ! The CCTB be income-tested , mean if your family make more than a certain amount of income , you do n't qualify for CCTB , which may incorrectly lead you to believe you should n't apply ! You should apply anyway for CCTB , even if you do n't expect CCTB benefit . Applying for CCTB get you in the system to receive UCCB , which be not income-tested . ( But , UCCB benefit be taxable . ) Here 's the necessary form : RC66 - Canada Child Benefits Application . Even after update since 2006 , it still doe n't mention UCCB , but it doe say `` Complete this form to apply for all child benefit program . '' Here be some other resource about the UCCB : Canada Revenue Agency - Universal Child Care Benefit ( UCCB ) Canadian Family - Universal Child Care Benefit 101 Canadian Capitalist - Apply for the Universal Child Care Benefit ( UCCB )Fred be correct ... MOST financial advisor ( but not all ) be pay either for manage your asset or for sell you financial product . But success at anything , especially build wealth , be all about PROCESS , not product . I applaud your desire to find a financial advisor to help you because this be not something that most people have the education , experience or capacity to do themselves ( it be impossible to get the perspective you need to make the best choice ) . Start with a CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER professional - they have an ethical duty to do what be in your best interest ahead of their own ( the `` fiduciary standard '' ) . You might interview two or three . Work with the one who be transparent about how they be pay and whose process be focus on help you achieve your goal ... not follow any rule of thumb or standard boilerplate . Your goal be different . Your financial life be different . Find someone who can help YOU follow YOUR agenda ... not their own .I 'm a little confuse on the use of the property today . Is this place go to be a personal residence for you for now and become a rental late ( after the mortgage be pay off ) ? It doe make a difference . If you can buy the house and a 100 % LTV loan would cost le than 125 % of comparable rent ... then buy the house , put a little of your own cash into it a possible and stretch the term a long a possible . Scott W be correct on a number of count . The `` cost '' of the mortgage be the after tax cost of the payment and when that money be put to work in a well-managed portfolio , it should do good over the long haul . Do n't try for big gain because do so add to the risk that you 'll end up bad off . If you borrow money at an after-tax cost of 4 % and make 6 % after tax ... you end up ahead and build wealth . A vast majority of the wealthy people use this arbitrage to continue to build wealth . They have plenty of money to pay off mortgage , but choose not to . $ 200,000 at 2 % be an extra $ 4000 per year . Compounded at a 7 % rate ... it add up to $ 180k after 20 year ... not exactly chump change . Money in an investment account be accessible when you need it . Money in home equity be not , ha a zero rate of return ( before inflation ) and be not accessible except through another loan at the bank 's whim . If you lose your job and your home be close to pay off but be n't yet , you could have a serious liquidity issue . NOW ... if a 100 % mortgage would cost MORE than 125 % of comparable rent , then there should be no deal . You be look at a crappy investment . It be cheap and good just to rent . I do n't care if price be go up right now . Prices move around . Just because Canada ha n't see the value drop like in the US so far doe n't mean it ca n't happen in the future . If comparable rent do n't validate the price with a good margin for profit for an investor , then price be frothy and can not be trust and you should low your monthly cost by rent rather than buy . That $ 350 per month you could save in `` rent '' add up just a much a the $ 4000 per year in arbitrage . For rental , you should only pull the trigger when you can do the purchase without leverage and STILL get a 10 % CAP rate or high ( rate of return after tax , insurance and other fix cost ) . That way if the rental rate drop ( and again that be quite possible ) , you would lose some of your profit but not all of it . If you leverage the property , there be a high probability that you could wind up lose money a rent fall and you have to cover the mortgage out of nonexistent cash flow . I know somebody be go to say , `` But John , 10 % CAP on rental real estate ? That 's just not possible around here . '' That may be the case . It IS possible somewhere . I have client buy property in Arizona , New Mexico , Alberta , Michigan and even California who be find 10 % CAP rate property . They do exist . They just be n't everywhere . If you want to add leverage to the rental picture to improve the return , then do so understand the risk . He who life by the leverage sword , dy by the leverage sword . Down here in the US , the real estate market be litter with corps of people who think they could handle that leverage sword . It be a gory , ugly mess .Dollar cost average moderate risk . But you pay for this by give up the chance for high gain . If you take a hundred people and randomly have them fully buy into the market over a decade period , some of those people will do very well ( relative to the rest ) while others will do very poorly ( relatively ) . If you dollar cost average , your performance would fall into the middle so you do n't fall into the bottom ( but you wo n't fall into the top either ) .Here be some more think : Consider inflation a a foundation ... People often overlook inflation when request a salary increase . The cost of live be almost always rise . If you 're go to ask for a raise , make sure you take that into account . ( See also : How much be inflation ? ) Try to find out how much inflation ha be over the time period since your last raise . In order for your purchase power be restore to what it wa originally , you need to win a raise that at least match inflation . e.g . An offer for a 2 % increase should n't suffice if inflation wa 3.5 % over the same period . ... Plus , you 're experience ha increase . What 's the `` new you '' worth ? Let 's say you get a raise match inflation : You 're keep up , but not actually any good off . How could you have justify more ? Consider : your bos now ha an employee with more experience , but be pay the same , in inflation-adjusted term , a before . The new you be a bargain at the old you price ! If you believe increase skill & experience be worth something and be confident you 're provide more value for money , do n't just aim for a raise match inflation . Demonstrate how much more productive you be . The list of achievement and salary survey JCarterRN mention be helpful to make your case . ... Finally , learn how to negotiate . I really like the book Getting to Yes : Negotiating Agreement Without Giving In , by Roger Fisher & William Ury . There 's a good summary of the idea in the book at Getting to YES – Wikipedia . The book describe principle-based negotiation , objective criterion , and understand your BATNA , or Best Alternative To a Negotiated Agreement . I find myself re-reading Getting to Yes the night before an important negotiation .The IRS W-8BEN form ( PDF link ) , title `` Certificate of Foreign Status of Beneficial Owner for United States Tax Withholding '' , certify that you be not an American for tax purpose , so they wo n't withhold tax on your U.S. income . You 're also to use W-8BEN to identify your country of residence and correspond tax identification number for tax treaty purpose . For instance , if you live in the U.K. , which ha a tax treaty with the U.S. , your W-8BEN would indicate to the U.S. that you be not an American , and that your U.S. income be to be tax by the U.K. instead of tax withhold in the U.S . I 've fill in that form a couple of time when open stock trade account here in Canada . It wa request by the broke because in all likelihood I 'd end up purchase U.S.-listed stock that would pay dividend . The W-8BEN be need in order to reduce the U.S. withhold tax on those dividend . So I would say that the ad revenue provider be request you file one so they do n't need to withhold full U.S. tax on your ad revenue . Detailed instruction on the W-8BEN form be also available from the IRS : Instruction W-8BEN ( PDF link ) . On the subject of ad revenue , Google also ha some information about W8-BEN : Why ca n't I submit a W8-BEN form a an individual ?Yes , it be possible to withdraw money from your Roth IRA before retirement ( but I would n't necessarily advise you to do so . ) Here 's the good news , and the bad news : The good news : Unlike a traditional IRA , money contribute to a Roth IRA be do so on an after-tax basis , mean you do n't benefit from a tax deduction on contribution . So , the money you withdraw from your Roth IRA will not be tax entirely a ordinary income . In fact , you be allow to withdraw the amount of your original contribution ( also know a basis ) without any tax or penalty . Let 's imagine you originally deposit $ 9000 of that current $ 10K total value – then in such a case , $ 9000 could be withdraw tax and penalty free . The bad news : When it come to the investment earn – the other $ 1000 in my example – it 's a different story : Since you would n't be age 59 1/2 at the time of withdrawal , any money take out beyond your original contribution would be consider a non-qualified withdrawal and subject to both ordinary income tax plus a 10 % early withdrawal penalty . Ouch ! Perhaps you might want to restrict your withdrawal to your original contribution . I would imagine if you 've have the account for such a short period of time that much or all of your account value be original contribution anyway . A good article about the rule for early IRA withdrawal be About.com 's Tax Penalty for Early Distribution of Retirement Funds . Note : If your Roth IRA fund be the result of a rollover from another account type , other rule may apply . See Roth IRA ( Wikipedia ) for more detail ; search for `` rollover '' . Regarding the withdrawal process itself and the time , you should check with your account custodian on how to proceed .The best thing you can do be shop around , and tell your current company that you 're shop . I have be with GEICO for year and recently discover ( while shop for renter 's insurance ) that AllState offer the same coverage for a few hundred dollar le . When I call GEICO to cancel , they offer me an additional discount ( for be a member of a credit union ) that I have n't receive before . I still switch , but wa sad that I have n't be get that extra discount just because I never ask if there be other discount I might qualify for . This article by ChristianPF talk about some change you can make to reduce auto insurance cost .Here be some way my family save money on our home insurance : We shop around , then end up purchase our insurance through a group affinity program offer by our university alumnus association . We combine our home and car insurance with that same insurer . They give u a special combination discount . We instal a monitor home security system and monitor smoke alarm . Our insurer ha an additional discount for these system . We raise our deductible . From time to time , we look around to make sure we 're still get a good deal . Here be a couple of good article on the subject : 15 way to save on homeowner insurance How can I save money when I buy home insurance ? Tips to Buying Homeowner Insurance . Finally - make sure you get adequate coverage ! Make sure you consider your real insurance need , and not just the cost of the insurance . If the bad happen , you 'll want good coverage with a good company .You can think of it like this : the credit report be the raw data , and the FICO score be the quick-and-dirty number that sum up for creditor how risky you be . Your FICO score determine whether or not you 're give a credit card or a loan , a well a what interest rate you 'll pay , and can even influence a decision about whether someone will rent you an apartment or give you a cell phone . A FICO score be calculate base on information from your credit report , specifically 1 ) your record of pay your bill on time , 2 ) the ratio of how much debt you have compare to the total of all your credit limit ( i.e . how much of your credit you 're currently use ) , 3 ) the length of your credit history , 4 ) how much you 've be apply for new credit recently , and 5 ) your mix of credit card and loan . ( I use Suze Orman 's The Money Book for the Young , Fabulous and Broke to refresh my memory on this list . ) A credit report list every creditor you currently or recently have have a relationship with . ( I think old creditor drop off 7 year after the account be close . ) For each credit card or loan , it list the date you open the account , your current balance , the start balance or credit limit , and month-by-month whether your payment wa on time , or late . There be three bureau that collect this information , Equifax , Experian , and TransUnion . You can obtain a free copy of each of your three credit report once a year through annualcreditreport.com . Each of the bureau will also offer to allow you to see your FICO score for an extra fee ( $ 7.95 with my favorite , Equifax ) . I think it 's well worth it to check it every 6 month or so . One last note about FICO score ... the `` FICO '' part be important . The FICO score be the real one . I 've see lot of offer from credit card , etc , offer a `` free credit score . '' If they 're not say it 's a FICO credit score , it 's not , and it 's pretty useless . Lots of great information here : myfico.com . Enjoy !You get to put money away with special tax incentive ( ie - no or le tax to pay ) They be state sponsor and therefore pretty reliable , but some state be good than others . Like with many of these tax incentive type account ( FSA , Dependent Care Spending Accounts ) they be use it or lose it . ( In a 529 , use it or transfer it ) . So the money put away be a sink cost towards education and can not be repurposed for something else should your kid not want to attend school . http : //money.howstuffworks.com/personal-finance/financial-planning/529.htmI just open my Quicken 2009 to see exactly what you 're talk about . This may be slightly different from 2008 , but in 2009 there be three number at the bottom of the register : Online Balance , Current Balance and Ending Balance . Online Balance be the number download from my bank . That 's what 's in my check account right now , but I know that I 've write the rent check and it ha n't yet be take out of my account . Current Balance go by the transaction I 've enter , in addition to the information download from my bank . So , that number ha take into consideration that I 've get a few check hang out there . ( Of course , that only work if you tell Quicken that you 've write those check . ) Ending Balance take into consideration info download from my bank , check and transaction I 've tell Quicken about that have take place already , and upcoming transaction , like my student loan payment that will be automatically deduct from my account tomorrow . You can tell Quicken how far in advance you want these factor in for each bill . For paycheck , I have it set to automatically enter into my register 2 day in advance . For automatic payment , I set it to enter in my register a week in advance . Now , unless you have more than $ 2000 in check hang out there , it 's unlikely that your Ending Balance be correct . But if you have any check that have n't be process yet , or you know about upcoming transaction , you really ca n't run out and spend the $ 3K that your Online Balance claim you have . ( Not that you be plan to do that anyway . ) Bottom line , you need to reconcile your account . Duplicate entry could explain the discrepancy , and should be delete . In the future , if you 're download transaction from two place , make sure you match them to avoid duplicate . Sorry this wa wordy , but hopefully it help ! Good luck !Charging interest by non financial institution be allowable . There be only one definition of illegal or criminal interest and this be regard loan shark . Section 347 of the Canadian Criminal Code make it illegal to charge more than 60 % annually . The big debate wa whether or not `` pay day '' loan company be break the law . The recent bill C-26 amend this section to exempt `` pay day '' loan from this definition .After a bite of root around the HMRC site , I find this page which say this : One key difference be that digitise product be class a electronically-supplied service for VAT and custom duty . These service be : download software download image , text or information electronic publication download music , film and game electronic auction supply of website or web-hosting service For VAT purpose , the place of supply of these service be the country in which the customer life . If you supply electronic service to a business customer in another European Union ( EU ) country , the customer account for any VAT due in that country . You should not charge UK VAT . If you supply electronic service to a consumer , charity or government body in another EU country , you have to account for UK VAT . If you supply electronic service to anyone in a country outside the EU , you do n't pay any VAT . If , a a UK business , you buy electronic service from a company outside the UK , you have to account for VAT . If I read this correctly , I a the supplier of the website need to account for VAT only if the sponsor be a consumer , charity or government body in another EU country . It be not cover in this site , but I assume I must also account for VAT for a customer base in the UK . So in answer to the original question , a customer from Canada ( which be currently outside the EU ) would account for the VAT themselves , and I would simply charge the gross amount .I 'm guess that you 've reach the value limit of a payment that can be make without link your account to a bank account . While you want privacy , PayPal want to not be a money launderer . You may need to seek an alternative way to pay for this if you 're try to be private about it .As for your chance of get a new home , those student loan if no long in deferment will count against your DTI , which be your debt to Income . The bank/credit union get this number by take your total monthly payment of all debt on your credit report and divide this number by your total gross income each month . The general rule be that this number include your new house payment should be 35 % or le . Paying off these loan will keep this number low , and at the same time show the institution your ability to pay off your loan in full over a long period of time . I would suggest pay down your student loan first . The amount to pay off change from person to person and situation to situation . The best thing for you to do be figure out your own DTI and pay off loan until you get to the 30 % mark . Then I would suggest save up for a 20 % down payment and to put 3 time your monthly income into a save account for an emergency save . On another note , since mortgage rate be base on your credit score , pay off that amount of school loan will increase your credit score and low your mortgage rate . Last , there be many different order you could pay off your student loan in . Another suggestion would be to take the student loan with the low balance and pay that off regardless of interest rate . The reason for this be that it create a `` snowball effect . '' Basically what this mean be that when people pay off one loan they get excite and get a renew interest in pay them down . If you start with the low and work your way up , it give you momentum and keep you want to pay them down .Reversing your math , I be assume you have $ 312K to work with . In that case , I would simply shop around your local bank and/or credit union and have them compete for your money and you might be quite surprise how much they be will to pay . A couple of month ago , you would be able to get about 4.25 % from Israel Bonds in Canada on 5 year term ( the Jubilee product , with minimum investment of $ 25K ) . It 's a bite low now , but you should still be able to get very good rate if you shop around tier-2 bank or credit union ( who be more hungry for capital than the well-funded tier-1 bank ) . Or you could look at prefer share of a large corporation . They be different from common share in the sense they be price accord to the payout rate ( i.e . people buy it for the dividend ) . A quick screen from your favorite stock exchange ought to find you a few option . Another option be commercial bond . You should be able to get that kind of return from investment grade ( BBB- and high ) bond on large corporation these day . I just do a quick glance at MarketWatch 's Bond section ( http : //cxa.marketwatch.com/finra/BondCenter/Default.aspx ) and find AAA grade bond that will yield > 5 % . You will need to investigate their underlie fundamental , coupon rate and etc before invest ( second think , grab a introduction to bond book from Chapters first ) . Hope these help .Wikipedia ha a nice definition of financial literacy ( emphasis below be mine ) : [ ... ] refer to an individual 's ability to make inform judgment and effective decision about the use and management of their money . Raising interest in personal finance be now a focus of state-run program in country include Australia , Japan , the United States and the UK . [ ... ] As for how you can become financially literate , here be some suggestion : Learn about how basic financial product work : bank account , mortgage , credit card , investment account , insurance ( home , car , life , disability , medical . ) Free print & online material should be available from your exist financial service provider to help you with your exist product . In particular , learn about the fee , interest , or other charge you may incur with these product . Becoming fee-aware be a step towards financial literacy , since financially literate people compare cost . Seek out additional information on each type of product from unbiased source ( i.e . source not try to sell you something . ) Get out of debt and stay out of debt . This may take a while . Focus on your highest-interest loan first . Learn the difference between good debt and bad debt . Learn about compound interest . On
[QUESTION]:What 's good : An unsecured line of credit , or a secure line of credit like a HELOC ?
[ANSWER]:A secure line of credit yield a low interest rate because if you default on it , the lender simply ha you on the hook with whatever you use to secure the line of credit . i.e . if you have a HELOC and you default , they 'll foreclose on you and take your house . An unsecured line of credit doe n't have the same type of clout for take your stuff . In short , a secure line of credit ha a low interest rate because it 's high risk for you and low risk for the lender .
[QUESTION]:What 's be the difference between `` define contribution '' and `` define benefit '' pension plan ?
[ANSWER]:Defined Benefit - the benefit you receive when you retire be define e.g . $ 500 a month if you retire at age 65 . It be up to the plan administrator to manage the pension fund , and ensure that there be enough money to cover the benefit base on the life expectancy of the retiree . Defined Contribution - the amount you contribute to the plan be define . The benefit you receive at retirement depend on how well the investment do over the year .
[QUESTION]:What 's an Exchange-Traded Fund ( ETF ) ?
[ANSWER]:ETFs offer the flexibility of stock while retain many of the benefit of mutual fund . Since an ETF be an actual fund , it ha the diversification of it potentially many underlie security . You can find ETFs with stock at various market cap and style category . You can have bond or mix ETFs . You can even get ETFs with equal or fundamental weight . In short , all the variety benefit of mutual fund . ETFs be typically much le expensive than mutual fund both in term of management fee ( expense ratio ) and taxable gain . Most of them be not actively manage ; instead they follow an index and therefore have a low turnover . A mutual fund may actively trade and , if not balance with a loss , will generate capital gain that you pay tax on . An ETF will produce gain only when shift to keep inline with the index or you yourself sell . As a reminder : while expense ratio always matter , capital gain and dividend do n't matter if the ETF or mutual fund be in a tax-advantaged account . ETFs have no load fee . Instead , because you trade it like a stock , you will pay a commission . Commissions be straight , up-front and perfectly clear . Much easy to understand than the various way fund might charge you . There be no account minimum to entry with ETFs , but you will need to buy complete share . Only a few place allow partial share . It be generally hard to dollar-cost average into an ETF with regular automate investment . Also , like trade stock , you can do those fancy thing like sell short , buy on margin , option , etc . And you can pay attention to the price fluctuation throughout the day if you really want to . Things to make you pause : if you buy ( no-load ) mutual fund through the parent company , you 'll get them at no commission . Many brokerage have No Transaction Fee ( NTF ) agreement with company so that you can buy many fund for free . Still look out for that expense ratio though ( which be probably pay for that NTF advantage ) . As sort of a middle grind : index fund can have very low expense ratio , track the same index a an ETF , can be tax-efficient or tax-managed , free to purchase , easy to dollar-cost average and easy to automate/understand . Further read : Fund v ETF
[QUESTION]:What be the difference between a `` traditional '' IRA and a Roth IRA ?
[ANSWER]:Both type of plan offer a tax benefit . A traditional IRA allow you to invest pre-tax money into the account and it grow tax free . Once you withdraw the money it then get tax a though it be income base on the amount you withdraw for that calendar year . A Roth IRA ha you invest post-tax money and also grow tax free . However , when you make withdraw in retirement that money be then tax free . Neither plan be right for everybody . If you have a very high income now and plan on be in a small tax bracket late when you 'll be make withdraw then the traditional IRA be good . If you will be in a high bracket late , then the Roth IRA will serve you more . Depending on the way you manage your retirement invest you can likely invest in both if you be unsure a to which would be good . The same type of investment should be able to be nest within each type .
[QUESTION]:What kind of investment should I have in my RRSP ?
[ANSWER]:I would highly recommend the book `` four pillar of invest '' by William J Bernstein . This be by far , in my humble opinion , the best text on asset allocation . In short , you will need a variety of equity investment , some bond , and even some cash ( or money market fund ) . Assuming you be design your retirement income via a combination of financial vehicle , I would put the least tax-efficient investment ( think fix-income product and other that be be treat the same way by CRA ) in RRSP and others in non-registered account ( you be only tax on 50 % of your capital gain and can use past loss to reduce future tax payable ) . If you be just start out , put everything in RRSP be not a bad idea either . You can always transform your portfolio ( i.e . across multiple account ) a you have more money to invest . The key here be to make sure you have the right mix of asset class that will best balance risk and return for you unique situation , and annual re-balance to make the ratio stay true . For example , if you can get to your retirement goal with a mere 3-5 % annualized growth in your portfolio - I would go 70 % bond , 20 % equity ( in large cap ETFs ) , and 10 % cash/MMF now and shift it into heavy emphasis on bond a your get close to your retirement . If you need 5-9 % growth to retire , you would want to do 60 % equity ( in large cap ETFs ) , 30 % bond , and 10 % cash/MMF ( I do n't advise 70 % equity right now , a the market be still volatile , and depend on who you listen to , this mess might go on for another 10 year or so , which be too close to your retirement ) . If you need more than 10 % of growth to get to your retirement , you will have to either re-assess your retirement goal or go all-in on equity - WARNING , just a my poker analogy suggest , you be gamble if you be do all equity , but it 's the only way you can get > 10 % annualized return over 10-15 year timeframe . If any of the above sound confuse to you even after you read the book , please do engage a fee-only financial planner ( i.e . not those that get pay commission when they sell you something ) to help you map it out . Hope this help ,
[QUESTION]:I 'm think of get a new car ... why should n't I LEASE one ?
[ANSWER]:If you be look to build wealth , lease be a bad idea . But so be buy a new car . All car lose value once you buy them . New car lose anywhere between 30-60 % of their value in the first 4 year of ownership . Buying a good quality , use car be the way to go if you be look to build wealth . And keep the car for a while be also desirable . Re-leasing every three year be no way to build wealth . The American Car Payment be probably the big factor hold many people back from build wealth . Do n't fall into the trap - buy a use car and drive it for a long a you can until the maintenance get too pricey . Then upgrade to a good use car , etc . If you can not buy a car outright with cash , you can not afford it . Period .
[QUESTION]:What kind of life insurance be cheap ? I 'm not sure about term vs. whole vs. universal , etc
[ANSWER]:Term be the way to go . Whole/universal be basically a combo of term and save , so buy term life insurance and invest the difference in cost yourself . You should make a lot more that way ( a far a save go ) than by buy whole life . By the time term life get too expensive to be worth ( when you 're a lot old ) you will have enough save to become `` self-insured '' . Just do n't touch the save : ) You really only need insurance when there be income to replace and debt to cover - house/mortgage , kids/school , job income , etc .
[QUESTION]:What be the best option for an RESP for my 2 year old kid ?
[ANSWER]:Since your child be 2 , he ha a long time horizon for investment . Assuming the save will be use at age 19 , that 's 17 year . So , I think your best bet be to invest primarily in equity ( i.e . stock-based fund ) and inside an RESP . Why equity ? Historically , equity have outperform debt and cash over long time period . But , equity can be volatile in the short term . So , do purchase some fixed-income investment ( e.g . 30 % government bond and money market fund ) , and do also spread your equity money around a well -- e.g . buy some international fund in addition to Canadian fund . Rebalance every year , and a your child get close to university age , start shift some asset out of equity and into fixed-income , to reduce risk . You do n't want the portfolio torpedo by an economic crisis the year before the money be require ! Next , why inside an RESP ? First , the Canadian government will kick in a 20 % match on your first $ 2500 contribute each year , up to age 17 , to a lifetime maximum of $ 7200 . That $ 500/year , be call Canadian Education Savings Grant ( CESG ) and it add up . Second , any investment earn inside the RESP be shelter from tax until withdraw . Tax-sheltered compound growth add up . Third , qualify withdrawal make by your kid when they go to post-secondary education be tax in their hand , not yours -- and generally that mean a good chunk of it be withdraw tax-free if there 's no other income on your kid 's tax return at the time . Finally ... what if your kid doe n't attend post-secondary education ? First , you should probably get a Family RESP , not a Group RESP . Group RESPs have strict rule and may forfeit contribution if your kid doe n't attend . Have a look at Choosing the Right RESP and Canadian Capitalist 's post The Pros and Cons of Group RESP Plans . In a Family plan , if none of your kid end up attend post-secondary education , then you forfeit the government match money -- the feed get it back through a 20 % surtax on withdrawal . But , you 'll have the option of roll over remain fund into your RRSP , if you have room .
[QUESTION]:I 'm currently unemployed and have be offer a contract position . Do I need to incorporate myself ? How do I do it ?
[ANSWER]:In short - if you ca n't get the job without incorporate , then incorporate ! Some client will require you to be incorporate ( which be why I do it 10 year ago ) . Essentially , for them , it 's a way of distance themselves from you to ensure they be not responsible for any monies if you do n't pay your tax . For you , there be also this idea of distance company asset from your personal asset . If they be not require you to incorporate , you can simply act a a sole proprietorship . A good place to start read up could be the site below ( for Canada/Ontario ) : Canada Business http : //sbinfocanada.about.com/ http : //sbinfocanada.about.com/od/incorporation/Incorporating_A_Business_In_Canada.htm http : //sbinfocanada.about.com/cs/startup/a/incorporatadv.htm When I register , I simply buy a book at Grand & Toy , with all the require form for Ontario . These form would also be available at a local Government service centre . You walk in , give the government money , and shortly thereafter you be incorporate . There be a number of others thing that be require ( have a minute book , write resolution , create share , set up a bank account , etc ) - all discuss in the guide For Ontario you can start here : http : //www.ontario.ca/en/services_for_business/index.htm At a high level , there be some cost for be incorporate , and some tax save . At a minimum , cost would include : Incorporation cost - from memory this be a few hundred dollar Name Search around $ 50 ( you be not require to pick a name , and can simply use the number company from the incorporation , so this be optional ) Bank Account in the business 's name ( RBC be good for new company a they have the low charge currently - see http : //www.redflagdeals.com forum for a more indepth discussion . You may need the help of an account to help set thing up , but it 's quite easy to maintain all the record , etc that be require . Some other minor thing I enjoy be write myself expense cheque so that I get money back immediately ( and effectively only pay 60 % of the cost after write it off in the company ) . I can decide how much to pay myself and push income from year to year .
[QUESTION]:What be the 401 ( k ) and IRA limit for next year ?
[ANSWER]:While a seemingly simple question , next year may be different . Interestingly , the 2010 contribution limit for 401 ( k ) and IRA plan be tie to the rate of inflation . PF blogger fivecentnickel.com post the follow article , 401 ( k ) Limits to Decrease in 2010 ? , which mention : Inflation ha be negative since March so , unless it pick up between now and October , the IRS will have no choice but to reduce contribution limit . If this happen , the contribution limit would fall from $ 16,500 to $ 16,000 with catchup contribution fall from $ 5,500 to $ 5,000 . [ Emphasis mine ] There 's also a good article at CNNMoney.com , New rule may mandate low 401 ( k ) contribution limit in 2010 . Check it out , too . The final limit be suppose to be announce some time in October ( i.e . late this month . ) I 'll post a follow-up when I read about the announcement . UPDATE : The final 2010 401 ( k ) contribution limit be announce by the IRS ; see this IRS press release : IR-2009-94 , Oct. 15 , 2009 [ ... ] The limitation that be adjust by reference to Section 415 ( d ) will remain unchanged for 2010 . This be because the cost-of-living index for the quarter end September 30 , 2009 , be le than the cost-of-living index for the quarter end September 30 , 2008 , and , follow the procedure under the Social Security Act for adjust benefit amount , any decline in the applicable index can not result in a reduce limitation . For example , the limitation under Section 402 ( g ) ( 1 ) on the exclusion for elective deferral describe in Section 402 ( g ) ( 3 ) will be $ 16,500 for 2010 , which be the same amount a for 2009 . [ ... ] In other word , the 2010 employee contribution / deferral limit for a 401 ( k ) plan be to be the same a in 2009 : $ 16,500 . If you be age 50 or over , additional catch-up contribution for a 401 ( k ) plan remain limit to $ 5,500 . For Individual Retirement Accounts , the contribution limit for 2010 be also to be the same a in 2009 : $ 5,000 . If you be age 50 or over , additional catch-up contribution for an IRA remain limit to $ 1,000 .
[QUESTION]:Can I claim lose income if a company I invest in go out of business ?
[ANSWER]:If this wa a public corporation ( stock ) and the investment wa make in a non-registered account , then you can claim a capital loss . Capital loss be claim against capital gain ( not income ) , and can be carry back 3 year or carry forward indefinitely . Here 's an article I 've write on how to claim capital loss that may help .
[QUESTION]:What be the current US-Canadian agreement on withhold tax for US Investment income ?
[ANSWER]:According the the Canadian-US income tax treaty this vary depend on the type of investment but the maximum be 15 % . This can normally be claim a a tax credit up to the maximum of 15 % . If a company be withhold more tax than this it be possible to apply for a reimbursement of the difference : Canadian resident seek to reclaim overwithheld tax may look to the procedure under U.S. Treasury Regulation Section 1.1461-2 ( a ) ( 2 ) for reimbursement or Treasury Regulation Section 1.1461-2 ( a ) ( 3 ) for set-off of the overwithheld tax .
[QUESTION]:I spend too much money . How can I get on the path to a frugal lifestyle ?
[ANSWER]:My father impart this advice to me when I wa a teenager , and it ha n't fail me yet . > Pay yourself first What this mean be that the first `` bill '' you pay should always be your save . Preferably in a way that automatically come out of your paycheck or account without require you to take an active step to make it happen . I save a ton of money , but I be no more discipline than anyone else . I just realize that over the year of progress in my career that I gradually get high and high salary , yet never have a substantial increase in the money I have leftover in my bank at the end of the month despite the fact that I make about 8x the money I use to live reasonably comfortably on . Therein be the point , we spend whatever money we see , so you almost have to hide it from yourself . First , participate to the full in your company 's 401k if they offer it . After a while you will adjust naturally to the net take home pay and wo n't miss the save you be accumulate . Absent that , or in addition to that , set up a separate bank or investment account and arrange an automatic transfer from your check account every month . Then set up automatic invest in CD 's or some other less-liquid-than-cash investment so you it be just enough hassle to get at the money that you wo n't do it on a whim . It sound too simple , but it work .
[QUESTION]:I 've often hear of the `` snowball '' method for pay off credit card debt . How doe it work ?
[ANSWER]:The most popular method of do a debt snowball be to to pay your debt in order from small to large , regardless of their interest rate . The idea behind this be that you get a boost from see progress , and stick with it . It 's popular for a reason -- it 's very effective . However sometimes people just ca n't stand the think of pay extra interest . If you 're very highly motivate and able to stick with something long term despite see only a small amount of visible progress at a time , you can do the debt snowball from high interest rate to low interest rate . It seem that people tend to stick with the first method more though , and oftentimes the difference in interest rate be not really that great . ( Especially if you hit the debt hard . ) In either case , it work like this : You organize your debt in the desire order . You pay minimum payment on all debt . You pay a much extra a possible each month to the first debt in the list until it be go . Once the first debt be pay off , you add the amount you have be pay to that debt to the next debt in the list , and throw a much money at that debt a possible . Repeat the process until all debt be repay . You can organize your debt yourself , or you can use tool like the What 's the Cost snowball calculator , the Pay Off Debt app , or Dave Ramsey 's Total Money Makeover ( book , apps , system ) . Disclaimer : Answer author run the company that publish the Pay Off Debt app .
[QUESTION]:Which account should I put my money to get the most tax benefit ?
[ANSWER]:The above be very true , but the big bang for your buck can also be in the RESP , assume you qualify for the grant of 20 % per year ... it 's hard to beat free money from the government ... in this account , your investment grow , and the growth and grant be tax in the hand of the child when it be withdraw . ( Normally , they dont have much income at this point , so pay little or no tax ) However , you do not get any income tax deduction or tax break at the time you make the deposit .
[QUESTION]:TFSA vs. RRSP ... Best retirement approach
[ANSWER]:For pure retirement save , with an expect tax bracket drop at retirement , then RRSP 's make the most sense . So if you be in the 29 % bracket ( ~40 % when you take the provincial component ) then you invest $ 1000 , and save $ 400 in tax . When you withdraw it late on , you might be in the 26 % bracket ( 36 % with provincial ) so you would owe $ 360 in tax . However , if you be young , and expect to buy a house in the future , TFSAs make more sense . Presumably , you have n't reach your high earn potential , so any tax save will be at the low rate . With a TFSA , you can get the benefit of all your money , and it earn without penalty , a the tax ha already be pay . I personally be in the middle bracket , and be use a mix approach . 50 % to TFSA , and 50 % to RRSP . I 've put my high-risk in TFSA , and my low-risk in RRSPs . That way I get any windfall tax free . There be one thing that a TFSA be perfect for : Emergency Funds . I recommend that everyone have a $ 5000 CASH TFSA . It wo n't earn much , but it 's not a tempt to borrow from a a regular save account , but the fund be available in an emergency , usually within the same day .
[QUESTION]:Are warehouse club like Costco and Sam 's Club worth it ?
[ANSWER]:We be member at costco , but decide not to renew . Meat wa a definite cost save , and laundry detergent a well . Diapers use to be a huge save , but loblaws seem to be price thing good now . We do by a bunch of Kirkland brand diaper and wipe before the membership end . The problem we have wa that you just get too much stuff - you save a bunch on that laundry detergent that you buy once every two year , or the chicken you have in your freezer forever . In Canada , the basic membership be $ 55 and we could not be certain we make that back , nor that we be n't over consume a we walk the aisle . I have hear that the more expensive membership ( $ 100 ) which give you 2 % back on purchase be a good way to gauge your usage and determine if it be worth it . It also cost nothing to give it a try - their policy be a full refund at any time , so in theory you could go in on your 364th day and get a refund .
[QUESTION]:Should I take Social Security early than full retirement age , or wait for more ?
[ANSWER]:I think the chance of them change the rule without grandfathering in people of retirement age ( pun intend ) be pretty small . The general rule of thumb on this issue seem to be to wait to get the full amount if you have sufficient resource that you do n't expect to need the money early . That be , unless you have some reason to not expect much longevity ( family history of die young , current medical condition , etc . ) Ultimately , however , this be a big financial decision that be best make with the help of a good financial adviser/actuary . There be a large number of variable to be consider .
[QUESTION]:If I have no exemption or deduction , just a simple paycheck , do I HAVE to file tax ?
[ANSWER]:As a Canadian resident , the simple answer to your question be `` yes '' Having work a a tax auditor and a a Certified Financial Planner , you be require to file an income tax return because you have taxable employment income . All the employer be do be deduct it at source and remit it on your behalf . That doe not alleviate your need to file . In fact , if you do n't file you will be subject to a no file penalty . The one aspect you be miss be that taxpayer may be entitle to tax credit that may result in a refund to you depend on your personal situation ( e.g spousal or minor dependent ) . I hope this help .
[QUESTION]:Are premium bond a good investment ?
[ANSWER]:I just find this article discuss the merit or otherwise of premium bond that indicate they 're not really a good investment . There 's heavy positive spin put out about Premium Bonds , after all NS & I be government back , and they help generate government fund and cash flow . Yet the payout be much bad than many believe . You ’ re likely to win even le than the interest rate . The value of prize pay out be determine by an interest rate , which be currently 1.5 % , though it change , usually follow a change in Bank of England UK rate . This mean if you own every Premium Bond in existence , the amount win over a year would be equal to 1.5 % of what you put in . So very roughly , on average for every £100 put into Premium Bonds , you 'd expect a £1.50 annual return . Yet because of the way the prize be allocate , the majority of people will win much le than the interest rate anyway . There ’ s a full explanation of why this happen late , but for now you can use the Premium Bond Probability Calculator to see how likely you be to win an amount equal to the interest rate .
[QUESTION]:Pension or Property : Should I invest in more property , or in a pension ?
[ANSWER]:Diversification be one aspect to this question , and Dr Fred touch on it relationship to risk . Another aspect be leverage : If you put money into pension it 's unleveraged , that be you invest £50,000 , and make 10 % . You have £55,000 . Another rental property be likely to be leverage . You put in £50,000 , and borrow £150,000 to buy a £200,000 property . If the market rise 10 % you make £20,000 so have £70,000 . On the flipside if the market drop 10 % you lose £20,000 . So it again come down to your appetite for risk . A far factor be that if you be successfully rent out your property , someone else be effectively buy that asset for you , or at least pay the interest on the mortgage . Just bear in mind that if you get into a situation where you have 10 property and the rent on them all fall at the same time a the property market crash ( sound familiar ? ) then you can be leave on the hook for a lot of interest payment and your asset may not cover your liability .
[QUESTION]:When doe Ontario 's HST come into effect ?
[ANSWER]:It look like the HST will be in effect in Ontario on July 1st , 2010 . As to whether it will replace GST with HST for all service , it look like some sector may get special treatment : Ontario may exempt mutual fund from HST ( National Post ) . But it doe n't look final yet . However , I would suggest that most service-based business in Ontario need to prepare to start charge 13 % HST instead of 5 % GST . It will be the law . On the `` good '' side of the new harmonize tax , it look like certain good will still be exempt from the provincial portion . Here 's a quote from the Ontario Budget 2009 News Release : '' Books , diaper , child 's clothe and footwear , child 's car seat and car booster seat , and feminine hygiene product would be exempt from the provincial portion of the single sale tax . '' Here 's some additional information on the introduction of the HST , from the province : General Transitional Rules for Ontario HST . And finally , another interest article from the Ottawa Business Journal : Preparing For Ontario Sales Tax Harmonization – It 's Not Too Early UPDATE : I just receive an insert from Canada Revenue Agency include with my quarterly GST statement . Titled `` Harmonization of the Sales Tax in Ontario and British Columbia '' , it contain a section title `` What this mean for you '' ( a in , you the business owner ) . Here 's an excerpt : [ ... ] All Ontario and B.C . registrant would need to update their account and point-of-sale system to accomodate the change in rate and new point-of-sale rebate for the implementation date of July 1 , 2010 . The harmonization of the sale tax in Ontario and B.C . may affect the file requirement of registrant outside of these two province . Registrants will report their HST accord to their current GST file frequency . As a result of the harmonization , there will be change to the rebate for house and public service body . More information will be release a it become available . Visit the CRA web site often , at www.cra.gc.ca/harmonization , for the most up-to-date information on the harmonization of the sale tax and how it may affect you . [ ... ] Last , I find some very detail information on the HST here : NOTICE247 - Harmonized Sales Tax for Ontario and British Columbia - Questions and Answers on General Transitional Rules for Personal Property and Services . Chances be anything you want to know be in there .
[QUESTION]:If you run a sole proprietorship , how do you declare the income of the business on your tax ?
[ANSWER]:You would report the overall income on your T1 general income tax return , and use form T2125 to report income and expense for your business . Form T2125 be like a mini income-statement where you report your gross revenue and subtract off expense . Being able to claim legitimate expense a a deduction be an important tax benefit for business big and small . In term of your second question , you generally need to register for a business number at least once you cross the threshold for GST / HST . If you earn $ 30,000/year ( or spread over four consecutive quarter ) then charge GST / HST be mandatory ; see GST/HST Mandatory registration . There be other condition a well , but the threshold be the principal one . You can also register voluntarily for GST / HST even if you 're below that threshold ; see GST/HST Voluntary registration . The advantage of register voluntarily be that you can claim input tax credit ( ITC ) on any GST that your business pay , and remit only the difference . That save your business money , especially if you have a lot of expense early on . Finally , in term of Ontario specifically ( saw that on your profile ) , you might want to check out Ontario Sole Proprietorship . There be specific case in which you need to register a business : e.g . specific type of business , or if you plan on do business under a name other than your own . Finally , you may want to consider whether incorporate might be good for you . Here 's an interest article that compare Sole Proprietorship Versus Incorporation . Here 's another article , Choosing a business structure , from the feed .
[QUESTION]:Is it possible to lease a car in Canada a a non-resident ?
[ANSWER]:Do you mean that you 've be deem a non-resident for tax purpose but that you 've return to Canada ? Do you intend to re-establish residency ? As a non-resident , it may be difficult to obtain credit from any Canadian financial institution , and similarly lease a vehicle may be difficult a well . Have you investigate longer-term rental option ?
[QUESTION]:What bank deposit be insure in the U.S. ?
[ANSWER]:The FDIC insure deposit up to $ 250,000 per depositor , per bank , for each ownership category . The ownership category be : Single Accounts Certain Retirement Accounts Joint Accounts Revocable Trust Accounts Irrevocable Trust Accounts Accounts Employee Benefit Plan Accounts Corporation/Partnership/Unincorporated Association Accounts Government Accounts You and a spouse could collectively have $ 750,000 of insure deposit at a single bank if you each have a single account , and a joint account together .
[QUESTION]:How be the Advance Earned Income Tax Credit ( Advance EITC ) suppose to work ? Help !
[ANSWER]:Your employer obviously doe not understand Advanced EIC . The idea be for you to get MORE in your paycheck and get your earn income credit throughout the year instead of all at once . Go to this link on the IRS EITC Home Page It will tell what your employer need to do to give you EIC . Did you complete a W-5 to give to him ? Hopefully if you give him this link or print it out for him he will understand how to do this . If not , then you may need to report him to the IRS . Good Luck !
[QUESTION]:What 's the difference between a discount broke and a regular broke ?
[ANSWER]:Discount broke do not give advice regard investment whereas a full service broke will . If you 're comfortable do your own research and make your own investment decision then that would be where the discount broke would come in . If not , a full service broke be most likely the type you should go through .
[QUESTION]:Does be involve in the management of a corporation make me ineligible for a workshare program ?
[ANSWER]:Assuming you be pay into and eligible to collect regular Employment Insurance benefit for the job in question , I do n't see how own a side business would , by itself , affect your ability to participate in the workshare program . Many people own dormant business ( $ 0 revenue / $ 0 income ) , or business with insignificant net income ( e.g . a small table at the flea market , or a fledgling web-site with up-front cost and no ad revenue , yet ; - ) I think what matter be if your side business generate income substantial enough to put you over a certain threshold . Then you may be require to repay a portion of the EI benefit receive through the workshare program . On this issue , I find the follow article informative : How to make work-sharing work for you , from the Globe & Mail 's Report on Business site . Here 's a relevant quote : '' [ ... ] If you work elsewhere during the agreement , and earn more than an amount equal to 40 % of your weekly benefit rate , that amount shall be deduct from your work share benefit payable that week . [ ... ] '' The definitive source for information on the workshare program be the Service Canada web site . In particular , see the Work-Sharing Applicant Guide , which discus eligibility criterion . Section IV confirm the Globe article 's statement above : '' [ ... ] Earnings receive in any week by a Work-Sharing participant , from source other than Work-Sharing employment , that be in excess of an amount equal to 40 % or $ 75 ( whichever be great ) of the participant's weekly benefit rate , shall be deduct from the Work-Sharing benefit payable in that week . [ ... ] '' Finally , here 's one more interest article that discus the workshare program : Canada : Employment Law @ Gowlings - March 30 , 2009 .
[QUESTION]:Is there a good rule of thumb for how much I should have set aside a emergency cash ?
[ANSWER]:If you be still pay off debt , then you should have about $ 1000 in save and put all you can towards non-mortgage debt . If you do n't have any debt besides your mortgage , then add up all of your monthly expense include food , gas , utility and keep 3-6 month in liquid save . Whether you keep 3 or 6 month depend on how safe your income be . If you have a steady safe job , you might be safe with 3 month . But , if your employer be cut back or you be in a commission base job or self employ - then lean more towards 6 month expense . Congrats on your new home !
[QUESTION]:Free `` Rich Dad '' education , with `` free gift '' : Is it legitimate , or be it a sale ploy ?
[ANSWER]:Robert Kiyosaki 's be basically a get-rich quick author . But to answer your question : It be a sale pitch in disguise . See Marketplace 's report on a Kiyosaki seminar , which reveal that the free work shop be a sale pitch for a 3-day work shop which cost several hundred dollar . And the 3-day workshop be a sale pitch for `` advance '' train which can cost a much a $ 45,000 ( presumably in Canadian dollar , a the report wa do in Canada ) . He doe touch on some basic sound principle , but it 's mix with a lot of really bad ( and in some case illegal ) advice . You 'll do much good to invest your time and money in read material that be n't advertise via infomercial . Kiyosaki may well be rich , but it 's from sell his Rich Dad-branded material , not from invest in real estate , or any other investment portfolio See also John T. Reed 's guru rat , and his review of Kiyosaki 's book , Rich Dad , Poor Dad .
[QUESTION]:What be the theory behind diversification ? Why doe it work ?
[ANSWER]:At it simple level it 's an application of basic statistics/probability : Suppose you have n independent and identically distribute asset with the return on asset i denote R_i which ha mean m and variance s^2 ( same for all asset ) . You can easily weaken these assumption but I make them to simplify the exposition [ Square bracket show a numerical example with n=20 , m=8 % , s=2 % ] if you invest in one of these asset you expect to get a return of m [ 8 % ] with standard deviation s [ 2 % ] ( so you expect with probability 95 % ( approx ) to get a return between m-2 * s and m+2 * s. [ between 4 % and 12 % ] Now suppose you split your money equally among the n-assets . Your return be now R = ( 1/n ) \Sum { i=1 } ^n R_i your expect return be E ( R ) = ( 1/n ) \Sum { i=1 } ^n E ( R_i ) = ( 1/n ) \Sum { i=1 } ^n m = m [ 8 % ] the variance of your return be Var ( R ) = Var ( ( 1/n ) \Sum { i=1 } ^n R_i ) = ( 1/n^2 ) \Sum { i=1 } ^n Var ( R_i ) = n * s^2 / n^2 ) = s^2/n So , the standard deviation be SD ( R ) = Sqrt ( V ( R ) ) = s/Sqrt ( n ) [ 2 % /Sqrt ( 20 ) = 0.44 % ] Now , with 95 % probability we get a return between E ( R ) -2 * SD ( R ) and E ( R ) +2 * SD ( R ) [ between 7.12 % and 8.88 % ] . This interval be small than when we invest in the single asset , so in effect with this portfolio we be achieve the same return m [ 8 % ] but with low variance ( risk ) [ 0.44 % instead of 2 % ] . This be the result of diversification . You can assume the asset be not independent ( and most book exposition of this topic do indeed do that ) . In that case the calculation be modify because the variance of the portfolio now depend on the correlation between return , a doe the reduction in variance cause by the diversification . If asset be negatively correlate the result of the diversification will be more reduction in risk and vice versa . You can also assume the asset be not identically distribute and the above analysis doe not change too much . You might look for some reference on CAPM ( Capital Asset Pricing Model ) or portfolio theory but broadly these be base on what I have describe above - find the portfolio with minimum variance for a give return by invest proportionally in treasury bond and risky asset .
[QUESTION]:Online money management application : Do you trust Mint.com or Quicken Online , or other personal finance tool online ?
[ANSWER]:Whether or not I trust them depend entirely on the personal finance application . In the case of Mint and Quicken , I would trust both . Always make sure to do plenty of research before submit any personal information to any source .
[QUESTION]:What be a reverse mortgage ?
[ANSWER]:See Reverse Mortgage from Wikipedia , the free encyclopedia : A reverse mortgage ( or lifetime mortgage ) be a loan available to senior , and be use to release the home equity in the property a one lump sum or multiple payment . The homeowner 's obligation to repay the loan be defer until the owner dy , the home be sell , or the owner leaf ( e.g. , into age care ) . In a conventional mortgage the homeowner make a monthly amortize payment to the lender ; after each payment the equity increase within his or her property , and typically after the end of the term ( e.g. , 30 year ) the mortgage ha be pay in full and the property be release from the lender . In a reverse mortgage , the home owner make no payment and all interest be add to the lien on the property . If the owner receive monthly payment , or a bulk payment of the available equity percentage for their age , then the debt on the property increase each month .
[QUESTION]:Where can I find an example of a really basic family budget ?
[ANSWER]:Gail Vaz-Oxlade ha a great interactive budget on her website , www.gailvazoxlade.com . If you watch Til Debt Do Us Part , this spreadsheet will automatically tell you how much to put in your `` jar '' each week in each category too ! Good luck .
[QUESTION]:I have a secure line of credit ( substantial balance ) a well a a retirement account . Am I wise to pay off my debt before contribute to my retirement account ?
[ANSWER]:I would definitely pay down the debt first . If it be go to take 15 year to do so , you probably need to allocate more money to pay down debt . Cut expense by go out to eat le , and keep spend to the bare necessity . You might even consider get a second job , just for pay down the debt . If that be n't enough , consider sell off some asset . You should be able to come up with a plan to be debt free ( exclude maybe a regular mortgage ) within 3-5 year . Once the only debt you have be a home mortgage , then it time to look at put money towards retirement again . Note , you should not take money out of a 401k or IRA to pay off debt . The cost for do so be nearly always too great .
[QUESTION]:Is it worth it to use `` balance transfer '' credit card , to take advantage of low-rate offer a sign-up incentive ?
[ANSWER]:First off , I recommend that you determine your current Credit Card balance , and how long you expect it will take to pay it off . Figure out how much of your payment will be go towards the CC 's interest , and how much interest you will be pay in total . You need this info to make an inform decision . Now you can look at the Credit Card offer and compare rate . Figure out how much you will save by low your interest rate . Remember that with a low rate you can pay it off fast while make the same monthly payment . However , there be some thing to watch out for in the fine print of the offer : Balance transfer fee for the new card . You 'll usually get charge a fee of $ 50-100 , or a percentage of the balance . Make sure this fee doe n't exceed the interest rate save on your new card ! Is the rate for balance transfer temporary ? Will the interest rate on your balance go up after a few month ? If so , will you have it pay off by then ? Or will you be right back where you start ? If transfer the balance be go to save you a reasonable amount of money ( enough to make the hassle worth it ) , then you should probably do it , assume you be financially literate enough to understand how it all work . ( Do n't make a financial move you do n't understand . ) As for your concern : Having too many card and lose track . There be a legitimate concern there , but look at it this way : If your old card be n't competitive ( which it probably be n't if you 're transfer the balance elsewhere ) , then it 's probably time to close it . You do n't have to keep both card around . And if the old one be pay off , it can sit with zero balance for a while ( no payment to be make ) . Note that a new card be not a license to spend more ! You be get the new card to reduce your total debt a efficiently a possible ( by pay le interest ) . If you be worry that you will start buy thing with both card , then maybe this be n't a good idea . Having `` too much credit '' available . This be not a problem for most people . Is your FICO above 800 ? If not , do n't worry about it . What you should worry about be : Credit Utilization - What be the the total limit of all your credit card ? What be the total balance of all your credit card ? Divide these number to get your utilization percentage . If this get too high ( you be maxed out ) , it will hurt your score . Debt to Income Ratio - How much do you owe ( Credit Card , Car Loans , Mortgage ) versus how much you make ? If this number get too high , it look like you be in over your head . So , what will happen if you apply for a new card and transfer your balance ? Will your total debt change ? No . So your DTI ratio will stay the same . Will your Credit Utilization change ? That depend on the credit limit of the old card v new one , and whether or not you keep the old one open .
[QUESTION]:Are travel point / reward credit card worth the hassle and cost ?
[ANSWER]:A lot of whether or not use those type of card be worth it depend on how you use your credit card . If you use your credit card very often and pay it off in full each month , then often these card can be great for you . If you often leave a balance on the card then a card with a low interest rate would be good to focus on . I personally would not use any point card that have any actual fee with it . They already typically have a below average interest rate a it be . For u , we very rarely use our credit card . For utility we use e-checks and for most other thing we use a cash budget system . As a result , for u the low interest credit card be more important since we rarely would gain any worthwhile amount of point for use .
[QUESTION]:Should I keep most of my bank , credit , and investment account at the same bank ?
[ANSWER]:http : //www.fdic.gov/deposit/deposits/index.html FDIC currently insure up to $ 250,000 . ( I would have put that a a comment to Jeffery but it say it wa lock . ) You do n't want to put all your egg in one basket . If you shop around , and keep shop all the time you can keep your account in a single place so long a that single place provide the best deal . Do n't have any loyalty to your bank institution because they do n't have any loyalty to you . Also , have lot of account mean you be familiar with lot of institution , so you be likely good at shop around . Things I consider . For few institution : Best rate Package deal , get big discount Better negotiation because you have much business with that bank Ease of manage account and summary statement Fewer phone call to make in the case of emergency For more institution : Less people know my full financial history Less danger if any single bank be compromise I can play bank offer off of each other ( price match or beat by 5 % ) More and vary account help with credit score ( I think )
[QUESTION]:What be the pitfall of loan money to friend or family ? Is there a right way to do it ?
[ANSWER]:There be two level to consider here : Small amount ( To me , this mean $ 20-30 ) - Just do it , if they pay you back , everything be fine . If they do n't , it 's not go to kill your friendship . In the latter case , do n't harp on them about it just let it slide and do n't loan them such money again Larger amount - In general , do n't loan them money . If you can afford to lose the money just give it to them a a gift . I usually give them the money say something like `` If you need this money , just take it , if you want to pay me back , great . If not , that 's okay too '' . If you be n't prepare to say that , loan them money be probably not a good plan . That say , before loaning/giving anyone money ask yourself if it be good for them . If they have problem manage their money , or hold down a job , and you give them money , they be just go to come back for more late . In this type of situation , you should n't give/loan them money . But on the other hand , if a friend or family member ha hit a rough patch and you know they be the kind of person that will be on their foot again soon , and you have nothing to lose , give them the money .
[QUESTION]:Canada Universal Child Care Benefit ( UCCB ) : $ 100/month per child under age 6 from the government . Is it true ?
[ANSWER]:Yes , it 's true . The benefit in question be Canada 's Universal Child Care Benefit ( UCCB ) . The UCCB wa introduce in the 2006 Federal Budget . The UCCB provide `` all family with $ 100 per month for each child under age 6 . '' Benefits begin in July , 2006 . What 's confuse be how to apply for the UCCB . When UCCB wa introduce , there exist another benefit call the Canada Child Tax Benefit ( CCTB ) . When introduce UCCB , the government decide it would be more efficient to have a single application process for all child benefit . In order to get UCCB , you would apply under the exist application process for CCTB . Unfortunately : The application form for CCTB doe n't mention the UCCB at all ! The CCTB be income-tested , mean if your family make more than a certain amount of income , you do n't qualify for CCTB , which may incorrectly lead you to believe you should n't apply ! You should apply anyway for CCTB , even if you do n't expect CCTB benefit . Applying for CCTB get you in the system to receive UCCB , which be not income-tested . ( But , UCCB benefit be taxable . ) Here 's the necessary form : RC66 - Canada Child Benefits Application . Even after update since 2006 , it still doe n't mention UCCB , but it doe say `` Complete this form to apply for all child benefit program . '' Here be some other resource about the UCCB : Canada Revenue Agency - Universal Child Care Benefit ( UCCB ) Canadian Family - Universal Child Care Benefit 101 Canadian Capitalist - Apply for the Universal Child Care Benefit ( UCCB )
[QUESTION]:How doe one find a good financial advisor ?
[ANSWER]:Fred be correct ... MOST financial advisor ( but not all ) be pay either for manage your asset or for sell you financial product . But success at anything , especially build wealth , be all about PROCESS , not product . I applaud your desire to find a financial advisor to help you because this be not something that most people have the education , experience or capacity to do themselves ( it be impossible to get the perspective you need to make the best choice ) . Start with a CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER professional - they have an ethical duty to do what be in your best interest ahead of their own ( the `` fiduciary standard '' ) . You might interview two or three . Work with the one who be transparent about how they be pay and whose process be focus on help you achieve your goal ... not follow any rule of thumb or standard boilerplate . Your goal be different . Your financial life be different . Find someone who can help YOU follow YOUR agenda ... not their own .
[QUESTION]:Should I put more money down on one property and pay it off sooner or hold on to the cash ?
[ANSWER]:I 'm a little confuse on the use of the property today . Is this place go to be a personal residence for you for now and become a rental late ( after the mortgage be pay off ) ? It doe make a difference . If you can buy the house and a 100 % LTV loan would cost le than 125 % of comparable rent ... then buy the house , put a little of your own cash into it a possible and stretch the term a long a possible . Scott W be correct on a number of count . The `` cost '' of the mortgage be the after tax cost of the payment and when that money be put to work in a well-managed portfolio , it should do good over the long haul . Do n't try for big gain because do so add to the risk that you 'll end up bad off . If you borrow money at an after-tax cost of 4 % and make 6 % after tax ... you end up ahead and build wealth . A vast majority of the wealthy people use this arbitrage to continue to build wealth . They have plenty of money to pay off mortgage , but choose not to . $ 200,000 at 2 % be an extra $ 4000 per year . Compounded at a 7 % rate ... it add up to $ 180k after 20 year ... not exactly chump change . Money in an investment account be accessible when you need it . Money in home equity be not , ha a zero rate of return ( before inflation ) and be not accessible except through another loan at the bank 's whim . If you lose your job and your home be close to pay off but be n't yet , you could have a serious liquidity issue . NOW ... if a 100 % mortgage would cost MORE than 125 % of comparable rent , then there should be no deal . You be look at a crappy investment . It be cheap and good just to rent . I do n't care if price be go up right now . Prices move around . Just because Canada ha n't see the value drop like in the US so far doe n't mean it ca n't happen in the future . If comparable rent do n't validate the price with a good margin for profit for an investor , then price be frothy and can not be trust and you should low your monthly cost by rent rather than buy . That $ 350 per month you could save in `` rent '' add up just a much a the $ 4000 per year in arbitrage . For rental , you should only pull the trigger when you can do the purchase without leverage and STILL get a 10 % CAP rate or high ( rate of return after tax , insurance and other fix cost ) . That way if the rental rate drop ( and again that be quite possible ) , you would lose some of your profit but not all of it . If you leverage the property , there be a high probability that you could wind up lose money a rent fall and you have to cover the mortgage out of nonexistent cash flow . I know somebody be go to say , `` But John , 10 % CAP on rental real estate ? That 's just not possible around here . '' That may be the case . It IS possible somewhere . I have client buy property in Arizona , New Mexico , Alberta , Michigan and even California who be find 10 % CAP rate property . They do exist . They just be n't everywhere . If you want to add leverage to the rental picture to improve the return , then do so understand the risk . He who life by the leverage sword , dy by the leverage sword . Down here in the US , the real estate market be litter with corps of people who think they could handle that leverage sword . It be a gory , ugly mess .
[QUESTION]:Does dollar cost average really work ?
[ANSWER]:Dollar cost average moderate risk . But you pay for this by give up the chance for high gain . If you take a hundred people and randomly have them fully buy into the market over a decade period , some of those people will do very well ( relative to the rest ) while others will do very poorly ( relatively ) . If you dollar cost average , your performance would fall into the middle so you do n't fall into the bottom ( but you wo n't fall into the top either ) .
[QUESTION]:How much would be a fair raise or salary increase to ask for at work ?
[ANSWER]:Here be some more think : Consider inflation a a foundation ... People often overlook inflation when request a salary increase . The cost of live be almost always rise . If you 're go to ask for a raise , make sure you take that into account . ( See also : How much be inflation ? ) Try to find out how much inflation ha be over the time period since your last raise . In order for your purchase power be restore to what it wa originally , you need to win a raise that at least match inflation . e.g . An offer for a 2 % increase should n't suffice if inflation wa 3.5 % over the same period . ... Plus , you 're experience ha increase . What 's the `` new you '' worth ? Let 's say you get a raise match inflation : You 're keep up , but not actually any good off . How could you have justify more ? Consider : your bos now ha an employee with more experience , but be pay the same , in inflation-adjusted term , a before . The new you be a bargain at the old you price ! If you believe increase skill & experience be worth something and be confident you 're provide more value for money , do n't just aim for a raise match inflation . Demonstrate how much more productive you be . The list of achievement and salary survey JCarterRN mention be helpful to make your case . ... Finally , learn how to negotiate . I really like the book Getting to Yes : Negotiating Agreement Without Giving In , by Roger Fisher & William Ury . There 's a good summary of the idea in the book at Getting to YES – Wikipedia . The book describe principle-based negotiation , objective criterion , and understand your BATNA , or Best Alternative To a Negotiated Agreement . I find myself re-reading Getting to Yes the night before an important negotiation .
[QUESTION]:What be a W-8 form , and how should I fill it in ?
[ANSWER]:The IRS W-8BEN form ( PDF link ) , title `` Certificate of Foreign Status of Beneficial Owner for United States Tax Withholding '' , certify that you be not an American for tax purpose , so they wo n't withhold tax on your U.S. income . You 're also to use W-8BEN to identify your country of residence and correspond tax identification number for tax treaty purpose . For instance , if you live in the U.K. , which ha a tax treaty with the U.S. , your W-8BEN would indicate to the U.S. that you be not an American , and that your U.S. income be to be tax by the U.K. instead of tax withhold in the U.S . I 've fill in that form a couple of time when open stock trade account here in Canada . It wa request by the broke because in all likelihood I 'd end up purchase U.S.-listed stock that would pay dividend . The W-8BEN be need in order to reduce the U.S. withhold tax on those dividend . So I would say that the ad revenue provider be request you file one so they do n't need to withhold full U.S. tax on your ad revenue . Detailed instruction on the W-8BEN form be also available from the IRS : Instruction W-8BEN ( PDF link ) . On the subject of ad revenue , Google also ha some information about W8-BEN : Why ca n't I submit a W8-BEN form a an individual ?
[QUESTION]:Can I withdraw from my Roth IRA retirement account to fund a startup ?
[ANSWER]:Yes , it be possible to withdraw money from your Roth IRA before retirement ( but I would n't necessarily advise you to do so . ) Here 's the good news , and the bad news : The good news : Unlike a traditional IRA , money contribute to a Roth IRA be do so on an after-tax basis , mean you do n't benefit from a tax deduction on contribution . So , the money you withdraw from your Roth IRA will not be tax entirely a ordinary income . In fact , you be allow to withdraw the amount of your original contribution ( also know a basis ) without any tax or penalty . Let 's imagine you originally deposit $ 9000 of that current $ 10K total value – then in such a case , $ 9000 could be withdraw tax and penalty free . The bad news : When it come to the investment earn – the other $ 1000 in my example – it 's a different story : Since you would n't be age 59 1/2 at the time of withdrawal , any money take out beyond your original contribution would be consider a non-qualified withdrawal and subject to both ordinary income tax plus a 10 % early withdrawal penalty . Ouch ! Perhaps you might want to restrict your withdrawal to your original contribution . I would imagine if you 've have the account for such a short period of time that much or all of your account value be original contribution anyway . A good article about the rule for early IRA withdrawal be About.com 's Tax Penalty for Early Distribution of Retirement Funds . Note : If your Roth IRA fund be the result of a rollover from another account type , other rule may apply . See Roth IRA ( Wikipedia ) for more detail ; search for `` rollover '' . Regarding the withdrawal process itself and the time , you should check with your account custodian on how to proceed .
[QUESTION]:How can I save money on car insurance ?
[ANSWER]:The best thing you can do be shop around , and tell your current company that you 're shop . I have be with GEICO for year and recently discover ( while shop for renter 's insurance ) that AllState offer the same coverage for a few hundred dollar le . When I call GEICO to cancel , they offer me an additional discount ( for be a member of a credit union ) that I have n't receive before . I still switch , but wa sad that I have n't be get that extra discount just because I never ask if there be other discount I might qualify for . This article by ChristianPF talk about some change you can make to reduce auto insurance cost .
[QUESTION]:How can I save money on home insurance ?
[ANSWER]:Here be some way my family save money on our home insurance : We shop around , then end up purchase our insurance through a group affinity program offer by our university alumnus association . We combine our home and car insurance with that same insurer . They give u a special combination discount . We instal a monitor home security system and monitor smoke alarm . Our insurer ha an additional discount for these system . We raise our deductible . From time to time , we look around to make sure we 're still get a good deal . Here be a couple of good article on the subject : 15 way to save on homeowner insurance How can I save money when I buy home insurance ? Tips to Buying Homeowner Insurance . Finally - make sure you get adequate coverage ! Make sure you consider your real insurance need , and not just the cost of the insurance . If the bad happen , you 'll want good coverage with a good company .
[QUESTION]:What be a FICO score and how be it relate to a credit report ?
[ANSWER]:You can think of it like this : the credit report be the raw data , and the FICO score be the quick-and-dirty number that sum up for creditor how risky you be . Your FICO score determine whether or not you 're give a credit card or a loan , a well a what interest rate you 'll pay , and can even influence a decision about whether someone will rent you an apartment or give you a cell phone . A FICO score be calculate base on information from your credit report , specifically 1 ) your record of pay your bill on time , 2 ) the ratio of how much debt you have compare to the total of all your credit limit ( i.e . how much of your credit you 're currently use ) , 3 ) the length of your credit history , 4 ) how much you 've be apply for new credit recently , and 5 ) your mix of credit card and loan . ( I use Suze Orman 's The Money Book for the Young , Fabulous and Broke to refresh my memory on this list . ) A credit report list every creditor you currently or recently have have a relationship with . ( I think old creditor drop off 7 year after the account be close . ) For each credit card or loan , it list the date you open the account , your current balance , the start balance or credit limit , and month-by-month whether your payment wa on time , or late . There be three bureau that collect this information , Equifax , Experian , and TransUnion . You can obtain a free copy of each of your three credit report once a year through annualcreditreport.com . Each of the bureau will also offer to allow you to see your FICO score for an extra fee ( $ 7.95 with my favorite , Equifax ) . I think it 's well worth it to check it every 6 month or so . One last note about FICO score ... the `` FICO '' part be important . The FICO score be the real one . I 've see lot of offer from credit card , etc , offer a `` free credit score . '' If they 're not say it 's a FICO credit score , it 's not , and it 's pretty useless . Lots of great information here : myfico.com . Enjoy !
[QUESTION]:How can a 529 plan help me save for my child 's college education ?
[ANSWER]:You get to put money away with special tax incentive ( ie - no or le tax to pay ) They be state sponsor and therefore pretty reliable , but some state be good than others . Like with many of these tax incentive type account ( FSA , Dependent Care Spending Accounts ) they be use it or lose it . ( In a 529 , use it or transfer it ) . So the money put away be a sink cost towards education and can not be repurposed for something else should your kid not want to attend school . http : //money.howstuffworks.com/personal-finance/financial-planning/529.htm
[QUESTION]:Quicken 2008 Online Balance vs. Ending Balance ?
[ANSWER]:I just open my Quicken 2009 to see exactly what you 're talk about . This may be slightly different from 2008 , but in 2009 there be three number at the bottom of the register : Online Balance , Current Balance and Ending Balance . Online Balance be the number download from my bank . That 's what 's in my check account right now , but I know that I 've write the rent check and it ha n't yet be take out of my account . Current Balance go by the transaction I 've enter , in addition to the information download from my bank . So , that number ha take into consideration that I 've get a few check hang out there . ( Of course , that only work if you tell Quicken that you 've write those check . ) Ending Balance take into consideration info download from my bank , check and transaction I 've tell Quicken about that have take place already , and upcoming transaction , like my student loan payment that will be automatically deduct from my account tomorrow . You can tell Quicken how far in advance you want these factor in for each bill . For paycheck , I have it set to automatically enter into my register 2 day in advance . For automatic payment , I set it to enter in my register a week in advance . Now , unless you have more than $ 2000 in check hang out there , it 's unlikely that your Ending Balance be correct . But if you have any check that have n't be process yet , or you know about upcoming transaction , you really ca n't run out and spend the $ 3K that your Online Balance claim you have . ( Not that you be plan to do that anyway . ) Bottom line , you need to reconcile your account . Duplicate entry could explain the discrepancy , and should be delete . In the future , if you 're download transaction from two place , make sure you match them to avoid duplicate . Sorry this wa wordy , but hopefully it help ! Good luck !
[QUESTION]:Can I charge interest on money that I have lend out , even though I be not a financial institution ?
[ANSWER]:Charging interest by non financial institution be allowable . There be only one definition of illegal or criminal interest and this be regard loan shark . Section 347 of the Canadian Criminal Code make it illegal to charge more than 60 % annually . The big debate wa whether or not `` pay day '' loan company be break the law . The recent bill C-26 amend this section to exempt `` pay day '' loan from this definition .
[QUESTION]:What be the tax liability for an international transaction ?
[ANSWER]:After a bite of root around the HMRC site , I find this page which say this : One key difference be that digitise product be class a electronically-supplied service for VAT and custom duty . These service be : download software download image , text or information electronic publication download music , film and game electronic auction supply of website or web-hosting service For VAT purpose , the place of supply of these service be the country in which the customer life . If you supply electronic service to a business customer in another European Union ( EU ) country , the customer account for any VAT due in that country . You should not charge UK VAT . If you supply electronic service to a consumer , charity or government body in another EU country , you have to account for UK VAT . If you supply electronic service to anyone in a country outside the EU , you do n't pay any VAT . If , a a UK business , you buy electronic service from a company outside the UK , you have to account for VAT . If I read this correctly , I a the supplier of the website need to account for VAT only if the sponsor be a consumer , charity or government body in another EU country . It be not cover in this site , but I assume I must also account for VAT for a customer base in the UK . So in answer to the original question , a customer from Canada ( which be currently outside the EU ) would account for the VAT themselves , and I would simply charge the gross amount .
[QUESTION]:PayPal want me to `` add a bank account '' , another fund source . Credit card be n't work . Why ?
[ANSWER]:I 'm guess that you 've reach the value limit of a payment that can be make without link your account to a bank account . While you want privacy , PayPal want to not be a money launderer . You may need to seek an alternative way to pay for this if you 're try to be private about it .
[QUESTION]:Will our hefty student loan affect our chance of get a mortgage ?
[ANSWER]:As for your chance of get a new home , those student loan if no long in deferment will count against your DTI , which be your debt to Income . The bank/credit union get this number by take your total monthly payment of all debt on your credit report and divide this number by your total gross income each month . The general rule be that this number include your new house payment should be 35 % or le . Paying off these loan will keep this number low , and at the same time show the institution your ability to pay off your loan in full over a long period of time . I would suggest pay down your student loan first . The amount to pay off change from person to person and situation to situation . The best thing for you to do be figure out your own DTI and pay off loan until you get to the 30 % mark . Then I would suggest save up for a 20 % down payment and to put 3 time your monthly income into a save account for an emergency save . On another note , since mortgage rate be base on your credit score , pay off that amount of school loan will increase your credit score and low your mortgage rate . Last , there be many different order you could pay off your student loan in . Another suggestion would be to take the student loan with the low balance and pay that off regardless of interest rate . The reason for this be that it create a `` snowball effect . '' Basically what this mean be that when people pay off one loan they get excite and get a renew interest in pay them down . If you start with the low and work your way up , it give you momentum and keep you want to pay them down .
[QUESTION]:How and where can I deposit money to generate future payment / income ?
[ANSWER]:Reversing your math , I be assume you have $ 312K to work with . In that case , I would simply shop around your local bank and/or credit union and have them compete for your money and you might be quite surprise how much they be will to pay . A couple of month ago , you would be able to get about 4.25 % from Israel Bonds in Canada on 5 year term ( the Jubilee product , with minimum investment of $ 25K ) . It 's a bite low now , but you should still be able to get very good rate if you shop around tier-2 bank or credit union ( who be more hungry for capital than the well-funded tier-1 bank ) . Or you could look at prefer share of a large corporation . They be different from common share in the sense they be price accord to the payout rate ( i.e . people buy it for the dividend ) . A quick screen from your favorite stock exchange ought to find you a few option . Another option be commercial bond . You should be able to get that kind of return from investment grade ( BBB- and high ) bond on large corporation these day . I just do a quick glance at MarketWatch 's Bond section ( http : //cxa.marketwatch.com/finra/BondCenter/Default.aspx ) and find AAA grade bond that will yield > 5 % . You will need to investigate their underlie fundamental , coupon rate and etc before invest ( second think , grab a introduction to bond book from Chapters first ) . Hope these help .
[QUESTION]:What be `` financial literacy '' and how doe one become `` financially literate '' ?
[ANSWER]:Wikipedia ha a nice definition of financial literacy ( emphasis below be mine ) : [ ... ] refer to an individual 's ability to make inform judgment and effective decision about the use and management of their money . Raising interest in personal finance be now a focus of state-run program in country include Australia , Japan , the United States and the UK . [ ... ] As for how you can become financially literate , here be some suggestion : Learn about how basic financial product work : bank account , mortgage , credit card , investment account , insurance ( home , car , life , disability , medical . ) Free print & online material should be available from your exist financial service provider to help you with your exist product . In particular , learn about the fee , interest , or other charge you may incur with these product . Becoming fee-aware be a step towards financial literacy , since financially literate people compare cost . Seek out additional information on each type of product from unbiased source ( i.e . source not try to sell you something . ) Get out of debt and stay out of debt . This may take a while . Focus on your highest-interest loan first . Learn the difference between good debt and bad debt . Learn about compound interest . Once you understand compound interest , you 'll understand why be in debt be bad for your financial well-being . If you be n't already save money for retirement , start now . Investigate whether your employer offer an advantageous match 401 ( k ) plan ( or group RRSP/DC plan for Canadians ) or a pension plan . If your employer offer a good plan , sign up . If you get to choose your own investment , keep it simple and favor low-cost balance index fund until you understand the different type of investment . Read the material provide by the plan sponsor , try online tool provide , and seek out additional information from unbiased source . If your employer doe n't offer an advantageous retirement plan , open an individual retirement account or IRA ( or personal RRSP for Canadians . ) If your employer doe offer a plan , you can set one of these up to save even more . You could start with access to a family of low-cost mutual fund ( example : Vanguard for Americans , or TD eFunds for Canadians ) or earn advance credit by learn about discount broke and self-directed account . Understand how income tax and other tax work . If you have an accountant prepare your tax , ask question . If you prepare your tax yourself , understand what you 're do and do n't file blind . Seek help if necessary . There be many good book on how income tax work . Software package that help you self-file often have online help worth read – read it . Learn about life insurance , medical insurance , disability insurance , will , live will & power of attorney , and estate plan . Death and illness can derail your family 's finance . Learn how these thing can help . Seek out and read key book on personal finance topic . e.g . Your Money Or Your Life , Why Smart People Make Big Money Mistakes , The Four Pillars of Investing , The Random Walk Guide to Investing , and many more . Seek out and read good personal finance blog . There 's a wealth of information available for free on the Internet , but do check fact and assumption . Here be some suggest blog for American reader and some suggest blog for Canadian reader . Subscribe to a personal finance periodical and read it . Good one to start with be Kiplinger 's Personal Finance Magazine in the U.S. and MoneySense Magazine in Canada . The business section in your local newspaper may sometimes have personal finance article worth read , too . Shameless plug : Ask more question on this site . The Personal Finance & Money Stack Exchange be here to help you learn about money & finance , so you can make good financial decision . We 're all here to learn and help others learn about money . Keep learn !
[QUESTION]:If there 's no volume discount , doe buy in bulk still make sense ?
[ANSWER]:If they do n't spoil , you can still get some marginal benefit if buy in bulk mean you avoid the need for a trip to the shop to get a replacement . If the item be a commodity that you will use eventually you be unlikely to lose out a the price tend to remain fairly stable . There 's also the inconvenience factor , I like to have plenty of some item so I 'm not catch short , consider how important your furnace be in mid winter , or the inconvenience of run out of an item right when you need it .
[QUESTION]:Are there any viable alternative to Paypal for a small site ?
[ANSWER]:I find out about Google checkout today , it look like it may meet my need , but I 'd still be interest to find out about other option .
[QUESTION]:How many credit card be it reasonable to have ?
[ANSWER]:The number to hold depend on your usage and your goal . However the most important aspect of credit card be the effect it ha on your credit score . Having a good credit score can be useful late when make large purchase like a car or house . Things to consider about credit card : Paying the minimum monthly balance . Late payment affect your score negatively . Excessive credit . High unused credit limit can flag you a a high risk . Also too many credit card with low limit can also create lot of unused credit . ( Another user mention get free tupperware with every card they get ) . Merchant support . Not all merchant support all the common card . e.g . You may want 1 Visa , 1 Mastercard . Reward system . Some card have a maximum limit on reward give base on spend . At that point you may switch to another card . For most people who have never have a credit card 1 credit card be usually enough initially since the expense should not exceed income ( plus this reduce the temptation to get into lot of debt ) . The best way to find out if you be okay be to check your credit score and do it regularly . In Canada there be several way to get this information and some of it free like Equifax .
[QUESTION]:How many day do I have to hold a stock before it be consider a capital gain by the CRA ?
[ANSWER]:You do n't have to wait . If you sell your share now , your gain can be consider a capital gain for income tax purpose . Unlike in the United States , Canada doe not distinguish between short-term vs. long-term gain where you 'd pay different rate on each type of gain . Whether you buy and sell a stock within minute or buy and sell over year , any gain you make on a stock can generally be consider a capital gain . I say generally because there be an exception : If you be deem by CRA to be trade professionally -- that be , if you make a live buy and sell stock frequently -- then you could be consider do day trade a a business and have your gain instead tax a regular income ( but you 'd also be able to claim additional deduction . ) Anyway , a long a your primary source of income be n't from trade , this be n't likely to be a problem . Here be some good article on these subject : Jamie Golombek 's National Post article : Day trader ca n't have it both way : Trading profit be income , not capital gain : CRA . Million Dollar Journey 's blog post : How Investing Taxes Work . The Canadian Tax Resource blog post : Capital Gain or Income ? .
[QUESTION]:If I have some old gold jewellery , be it worth it to sell it for it melt value ?
[ANSWER]:Get your jewelery appraise . ( Do n't let whoever doe the appraisal be the same person whom you would sell it to . ) Logically jewelery must be worthy more than the raw gold that make it up because somebody take the time to design pattern and do specialty craft to the metal .
[QUESTION]:I 'm 23 , live at home , and still ca n't afford my own property . What could I do ?
[ANSWER]:I would n't be too concern , yet . You 're young . Many young people be live long in the family home . See this Guardian article : Young adult delay leave family home . You 're in good company . Yet , there will come a time when you ought to get your own place , either for your own sanity or your parent ' sanity . You should be prepare for that and build up your save . Since you 've get an income , you should – if you 're not already – put away some of that money regularly . Every time you get pay , make a point of deposit a portion of your income into a save or investment account . Look up the popular strategy call Pay Yourself First . Since you still live at home , it 's possible you 're a little more loose with spend money than you should be – at least , I 've find that to be the case with some friend who live at home a young adult . So , perhaps pretend you 're on your own . What would your rent be if you have to find a place of your own ? If , say , £600 instead of the £200 you 're currently pay , then you should reduce your spend to the point where you can save at least £400 per month . Follow a budget . With respect to your car , it 's great you recognize your mistake . We 're human and we can learn from our mistake . Plan to make it your one and only car mistake . I make one too . With respect to your credit card debt , it 's not an insurmountable amount . Focus on get rid of that debt soon and then focus on stay out of debt . The effective way to use credit card be to never carry a balance – i.e . pay it off in full each month . If you ca n't do that , you 're likely overspend . Also , look at what pension your employer might offer . If they offer match contribution , contribute at least a much to maximize the tax free extra pay this equate to . If you have access to a define benefit plan , join it a soon a you be eligible . Last , I think it 's important to recognize that at age 23 you 're just start out . Much of your career income earn potential be ahead of you . Strive to be the best at what you do , get promotion , and increase your income . Meanwhile , continue to save a good portion of what you earn . With discipline , you 'll get where you want to be .
[QUESTION]:Are quarterly earn release first via a press release on the investor website , via conference call , or doe it vary by company ?
[ANSWER]:the financial information be generally file via SEDAR ( Canada ) or SEC ( US ) before the conference call with the investment community . This can take before either before the market open or after the market close . The information be generally distribute to the various newswire service and company website at the same time the file be make with SEDAR/SEC .
[QUESTION]:We get receipt from our child care provider . Can we still claim a tax benefit even though they 're not license ?
[ANSWER]:Licensing would n't be relate to whether you could use the caregiver 's receipt a tax-deductions . The IRS ha a page worth check out : Top Ten Facts About the Child and Dependent Care Credit , a well a Publication 503 : Child and Dependent Care Expenses ( PDF ) . Specifically check out the section `` Provider Identification Test '' in Publication 503 ; it 's relevant . The amount you 're deduct for child care need to be for a `` qualify person '' , e.g . a dependent child under age 13 , per the IRS , but the caregiver – a far a the IRS be concern – need not be specially qualify to provide child care . However , the caregiver ca n't also be a dependent ( e.g . your spouse or another child . ) See the resource above for detail . Licensing be likely enforce at a municipal or state level , separate from the tax code , and I imagine would be more concern with the qualification and condition of the child care business operator .
[QUESTION]:How much doe it cost to buy mutual fund ? Where can I find about about the charge ?
[ANSWER]:To add to ChrisH 's response : In addition to front end load and back end load , there be also fund expense for trade , management , administration , etc . These expense be roll up and report a the fund 's Management Expense Ratio ( MER ) . Furthermore , there be also fund that be sell on a No Load basis , which mean you do n't pay either a front or back end load type of commission . However , MERs be always present . Funds may also pay trailer fee to the advisor that sell them . These be small commission amount pay each year . All of these fee add up and can consume a significant portion of your expect investment return . For instance , if the fee total 2 % per annum and you expect to earn 8 % per annum , then 25 % of your expect return be go to fee . ( Most people only consider the 2 % and think that 's small ; it be n't , when express in term of your return ! ) Prefer no-load fund with low MERs . Funds with load and high fee do n't outperform the market . Do your own research to convince yourself of this . Finally – you can usually look up the fee for a fund in it simplify prospectus . Do n't buy a fund without understand what it invest in , how it be manage , and what fee be charge for buy , hold , and sell it .
[QUESTION]:Getting on the property ladder : mortage , downpayment , fee ? [ UK ]
[ANSWER]:In the current climate , most good deal be for people look for a 75 % LTV or le . There be mortgage available with ok APRs for up to 90 % LTV though . At the moment you would struggle to find a mortgage with great than a 90 % LTV . You can use an online comparison site like Money Supermarket to find a deal . Plugging in the number you give in your question ( house price 100K , income 21K ) with a few other assumption ( 10K deposit for 90 % LTV , 300/month other outgo ) give a number of result at around 6 % APR , which be n't great , but the payment would be around £600/month which you may be able to afford .
[QUESTION]:Are TD e-Series Funds worthwhile , or be I good off with ETFs ? Why or why not ?
[ANSWER]:M Attia , the advantage of the TD e-series be that they be a low cost way to index your portfolio a well it give you to opportunity to invest small amount at a time . With ETF 's , purchase small amount at a time would simply get too expensive .
[QUESTION]:What be the advantage and disadvantage of lease out a property or part of a property ( such a a basement apartment ) ?
[ANSWER]:The obvious advantage be turn your big liability into an income-generating asset . The downside be : ( 1 ) , you have to find tenant ( post , time to show the place , credit/background check , and etc ) ( 2 ) , you have to deal with tenant ( collection of rent , repair of thing that break by itself , complaint from neighbor , termination , and etc ) ( 3 ) , you have to deal with the repair In many way , it 's no different from run another ( small ) business , so it all boil down to how much time you be will to invest and how handy you be in do reno 's and/or small repair around the house . For profitability/ROI analysis , you want to assume collection of 11 month of rent per year ( i.e . assume tenant doe n't renew after year , so you have the bad case scenario ) and factor in all the associate expense ( be honest ) . Renting out a second property be a bite tricky a you often have to deal with a large operate expense ( i.e . mortgage ) , and rent a basement apartment be not bad financially and you will have to get use to have `` strange '' downstairs .
[QUESTION]:If I buy a property in an underage dependent 's name be I exempt from capital gain ( loss ) on my income tax ?
[ANSWER]:From what I 've read : In Canada , for tax purpose , a family unit ( i.e . you , your spouse , and your dependent child ) can only claim one property a principal residence , for the purpose of claim the principal residence capital gain exemption . So , you need to pick which property you 'll be claim a your principal residence for tax purpose , a only one home can be designate principal residence for any give year . Therefore , I imagine that if you already have a principal residence , you would not be able to shelter another property from capital gain tax simply by put it in the name of your dependent minor – ( and be that even possible ? ) I would guess that gain on the sale of that additional property would be subject to capital gain tax . Finally , if you 're talk about have your dependent minor child own real-estate , I agree with montyloree that you ought to check with a professional – it sound potentially complicate .
[QUESTION]:What type of investment should be in a TFSA , give it tax-free growth and withdrawal benefit ?
[ANSWER]:A questoin that I deal with almost every day . Like most investment it come down to ..... What be the purpose for this money ? If it be truly a rainy day save account that you may need in the short term , then fix income investment like save account , GIC 's , Bonds , Bond fund and Fixed Income ETF 's be ideal a they be tax very inefficiently outside of any register plan ( therefore tax free in here ) . However if you have a plan in place that ha all your short term need cover elsewhere , I believe this be the place that you should be the most aggressive in your overall portfolio . If that mine stock go up by 1000 % would n't it be nice to put all of that gain in your pocket ?
[QUESTION]:Is an RESP the best investment option for my young child ?
[ANSWER]:Dazed , an RESP be a type of account . Within the RESP , you can have cash , investment or even save vehicle like GICs etc . So depend on where you put the money within the RESP , yes , there be a chance of lose money . If you think your child will attend post secondary education , I do n't think that there be a good way to save . The government will match 20 % of your contribution , up to a maximum grant of $ 500 per year . To take advantage of the grant , we contribute $ 2500 per year to obtain the maximum $ 500 grant . Hope this help !
[QUESTION]:How much be university project to cost in Canada in 18 year ?
[ANSWER]:For a Canadian university education , an October 2009 article at Canada.com say : [ ... ] The study estimate the total price tag of an undergraduate degree at a whop $ 137,013 for student live away from home and $ 101,426 for those stay at home . [ ... ]
[QUESTION]:Should I have an RRSP on top of a pension ?
[ANSWER]:I would say yes : it 's worth build additional retirement save on top of a define benefit pension plan ( plan that pay set annual income ) . Here be a couple of reason : Do n't put all your egg in one basket . While OTPP be probably in good shape , thing can and do happen to pension plan . While there be a provincial system in place to guarantee some of your pension income ( $ 1000/mo ) if your plan go bust , your benefit be not 100 % guarantee . Defined benefit pension plan be design to provide recur annual income , like your paycheck when you be employ . You ca n't `` take more out '' from your define benefit pension plan when an emergency come up . Whereas , your RRSP ( and eventually RRIF , in retirement ) be account from which you can take out extra in any give year , if necessary . That be say , Canada Revenue Agency ( CRA ) wo n't let you save a much in your RRSP a other people who do n't have pension plan : Normally , individual in Canada be entitle to save 18 % of their earn income , up to a limit ( $ 21000 in 2009 ) in an RRSP each year . However , to level the play field , individual who be in a pension plan get a `` Pension Adjustment '' ( PA ) number on their T4 which reduce their available RRSP contribution room . Otherwise , they 'd be able to tax-shelter more income for retirement than others . So , I would suggest if you have the RRSP room , consider use it . I 'd also suggest you look at a Tax Free Savings Account ( TFSA ) , especially if you do n't have much RRSP room due to the pension adjustment . If you 're not sure whether to use an RRSP or a TFSA , consider both .
[QUESTION]:If I have a pension with my employer and then leave , be the pension mine to take with me ?
[ANSWER]:The handle of register pension plan be a very complex discussion , unfortunately ... The good thing be that the rule be generally well-documented by the plan administrator - ask your company 's HR for that info . I be go to assume we be talk Defined Benefit Plans here . Generally speak , you ca n't take your pension with you without you have to pay tax a if you be withdraw it ( they call tax at the source ) , even if you be `` transfer '' to the pension plan at your new employer . This type of pension plan be really an obligation from the company to pay you at the prescribe rate ( base on your year of service and other parameter they define ) for the rest of your natural life , and should not be view a your RRSP/401K . If we be talk about Defined Contribution Plans , then it be very much like RRSP/401K with the exception that it ha to either transfer tax-free to a LIRA account ( and sometimes you can transfer to your new employer 's DCP ) or be treat a if you be make a withdraw ( and get tax in full ) . Generally speak the handle would be identical regardless the nature of your departure , but do check the documentation with your company 's plan administrator . Hope this help .
[QUESTION]:When negotiate a compensation package with a prospective new employer , how can I determine what element be worth more ?
[ANSWER]:Yep , add it up ! They do n't give you , say , 30 day to accept an offer because you need 30 day to go to the post office - they be give you the time to evaluate the offer . A simple request for information from HR will net you exactly ( or at least rough term for variable benefit ) what you will pay for benefit , receive a over-salary compensation , and cost and policy relate to vacation day , etc . Add it up , and compare that with the detail account you do for the other company , and you should be able to tell which number be large than the other . If you 're also familiar with extremely basic financial principle , you can make a tiny spreadsheet that can show you the value of an offer over time a well . ( Pay raise band , etc ) As a personal warn though , make sure you do n't get TOO detail into the account . If it matter that much to you , I doubt you be choose the company for the right reason .
[QUESTION]:How much be college / university project to cost in the U.S. in 18 year ?
[ANSWER]:( I think this fit good here than where I originally post it ... ; ) ) The College Board offer a calculator . Keep in mind that college cost typically increase fast than inflation . When I attend in 2001-2005 , my college 's tuition cost increase range from 4 to 8 % .
[QUESTION]:How can we use up our Flex Spending Account ( FSA ) before the end of the year ?
[ANSWER]:Some eligible expense include : - Sunscreen ( SPF 30 and great ) - Band Aids - Tylenol and Advil - Mileage drive for medical care ( at a rate of 24 cents/mile ) - Vision expense ( glass , contact , contact solution , eye drop , etc ) - Chiropractor visit - Airborne - Anti-decongestants You should be able to go to a local drug store and see what item be eligible to be purchase through with your Flexible Spending Account ( ask at the counter ) . We also have a website that only sell FSA eligible item and ship directly to your home if you want to check out that option . Please let me know if you have any more Flexible Spending Account Questions or need more idea .
[QUESTION]:What be the best way to go about clean up a poor credit rat ?
[ANSWER]:10 year in some state in the US . Also , item do n't ever leave your credit report , but time will improve your credit score . Repair the damage ? First find the damage . In the US you be entitle by law to a credit report from each of the bureau once a year . Some folk get them all at once , some people get one every four month . http : //www.annualcreditreport.com/cra/index.jsp Please do n't pay for a credit report . Anybody who advertise will be the one sell you a report and they be basically steal . You have a pretty good chance of find error in your report . You will have to dispute them with the report bureau . Be prepare for a few month of register letter and lot of phone call to get your report clean up and accurate . Then , Know how credit work . Know your score . I have use credit.com for free to get an estimate score . It also cover # 1 with some nice info on how credit be calculate . Pay down debt , do n't acquire more Do n't cancel your credit line that be pay down . Cut up the card , never use the account again , but do n't close them . Once you be debt free , if you use credit wisely that doe n't hurt . Pay for stuff with credit card but always always always pay them off at the end of each month . Time be the best way to fix your ill . Use credit properly for a nice long time and your score will improve . Do n't use credit counsel : All they do be bargin for low payment . You can do this yourself . Do n't use credit protection service : They do n't do anything you ca n't do yourself for free . ( Read some consumer credit web page to learn your right ) EXAMPLE I run across this tale , which be pretty well write , very clear and mention a lot of the step and detail I never know . http : //episteme.arstechnica.com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/34709834/m/934001917831
[QUESTION]:What be some tip to help avoid impulse-buy ?
[ANSWER]:For me , it would be hard to leave all form of money at home ( cash , credit card , debit card . ) There be time when you simply need to have money on hand . But , here 's a simple idea I have that let you bring your card with you , yet still put up a hurdle to curb impulse buy . Get a sheet of paper , scissor , pen , and tape . Craft a small envelope just the right size to hold a credit card . Put your credit card in this new envelope and tape it shut ; i.e . no easy access . On both side write : Do you really need it ? Repeat for each of the card you need to carry . When you 're in a situation where you want to buy something , the card that 's in your wallet/purse will be wrap in your craft `` reminder envelope . '' You 'll see the reminder , which be hopefully enough . Then , in order to make a purchase you 'll need to tear it open . That should get you to think twice . The one problem with the above be online purchase : If you have memorize your card information , add this rule for yourself : No online purchase without the payment card present and visible . ( i.e . you also must tear open the envelope for online purchase . )
[QUESTION]:Should I finance a new home theater at 0 % even though I have the cash for it ?
[ANSWER]:Be very careful with this . When we try this with furniture , they charge an `` administrative '' fee to setup the account . I believe it wa about $ 75 . So if you defer interest for one year on a $ 1000 purchase and pay a $ 75 administrative fee , it 's 7.5 % interest . Also , they do n't always send you a bill when it 's due , they just let you go over the date when you could have pay it without pay interest , and then you owe interest from the date of purchase . These plan be slimy . Be careful .
[QUESTION]:I 've hear that it 's never a good idea to go with payment protection plan offer by credit card company . Is this true ?
[ANSWER]:Think about who be they protect : only themselves . Just like mortgage insurance , you pay the premium so in case you ca n't pay your bill , they still get to cash in the policy . Upside , you do n't owe them money when you ca n't pay . Downside , you more or le pay them . If you get hurt , ca n't work and ca n't pay your bill the best option for you be to call your creditor and try to arrange something specific to the situation . But only when it happen . If thing go completely wrong , or there be a debt attribute to you that be n't really yours , you have the option to not pay them . So my opinion be why pay for insurance for them , let the bank pay their own premium .
[QUESTION]:When buy expensive electronics be it worth get the extend warranty ?
[ANSWER]:My knee-jerk reaction wa `` no , they be not worth it '' , but I take a little time to look up what some of the trust name in consumer electronics review have to say about extend warranties/service contract . A cnet writer say that your decision should consider the price of the service contract relative to the price of the item you 're buy , a well a the amount of hassle you 're will to endure , should something go wrong . Consumer Reports belief that the warranty that come with your product be almost always enough , and they say that electronics and appliance be so well-built nowadays , the likelihood of you need extra service before you upgrade be slim-to-none . And the folk over at epinions.com offer the same maybe-yes-maybe-no advice a the cnet guy : depend on your appetite for risk and the option available to you . So I would suggest that the answer be `` no '' most of the time , but consider it anyway .
[QUESTION]:How exactly do dividend reinvestment plan ( DRIPs ) work ?
[ANSWER]:I think Wikipedia offer a very good explanation : A dividend reinvestment program or dividend reinvestment plan ( DRIP ) be an equity investment option offer directly from the underlie company . The investor doe not receive quarterly dividend directly a cash ; instead , the investor 's dividend be directly reinvested in the underlie equity . The investor must still pay tax annually on his or her dividend income , whether it be receive or reinvested . This allow the investment return from dividend to be immediately invest for the purpose of price appreciation and compound , without incur brokerage fee or wait to accumulate enough cash for a full share of stock . So essentially , a dividend reinvestment plan be offer by company directly , allow investor to bypass brokerage , and immediately re-invests dividend rather than pay them out in cash . Investopedia also give a straighforward definition : A plan offer by a corporation that allow investor to reinvest their cash dividend by purchase additional share or fractional share on the dividend payment date . A DRIP be an excellent way to increase the value of your investment . Most DRIPs allow you to buy share commission free and at a significant discount to the current share price . Most DRIPS do n't allow reinvestments much low than $ 10 . I have a hard time find a comprehensive list of company that offer DRPs ( or DRIPs ) , but MyDollarPlan.com offer these suggestion : Finding a Dividend Reinvestment Plan : Computershare offer one-stop shop for hundred of dividend reinvestment plan . They offer a searchable list that can be filter to easily find a dividend reinvestment plan that fit your need . You can also use OneShare . Probably the best way to find out if a company offer a dividend reinvestment plan be to visit the company website . Most company have an Investor Relations area that will highlight the various option available to shareowner . For example : Coca-Cola , Disney , and Wal-Mart . Hope this help ! @ YMCbuzz
[QUESTION]:How can I avoid go deep into debt during the holiday season ?
[ANSWER]:My wife and I make a pact with each other and my side of the family year ago that Christmas should not be about the commercialism or material thing . It should be about the togetherness . So we all agree that it 's best to focus on what the holiday season be really about instead of get suck into consumerism . Plus , my wife and I live in New York and my family 's in California , so make the cross-country trip during the holiday be a big expense on it own , and everyone agree that our be there to spend time together be enough of a gift for all of u . We 've all be happy and much le stress ever since -- now that we no long succumb to the consumerism that 's hijack the spirit of the holiday season . Why must Christmas be so much about stuff ?
[QUESTION]:Thinking of do an MBA : Is an $ 80K top MBA school good than a $ 24K online MBA school ?
[ANSWER]:If you can get into the top school , it 's a no-brainer to go that route . An MBA at a top school will not only give you an education teach by world-renowned professor but also a large network of student and alumnus .
[QUESTION]:Should you co-sign a personal loan for a friend/family member ? Why/why not ?
[ANSWER]:My think on loan money to friend or family be outline pretty extensively here , but cosign on a loan be a different matter . It be almost never a good idea to do this ( I say `` almost '' only because I dislike absolute ) . Here be the reason why : If the borrower doe n't pay the loan , you be on the hook for the loan . If you ca n't won't/pay it in such a case a ( 1 ) , it your credit score will be trash . If they default on the loan and the asset they buy doe n't cover the loan balance , your own asset could be in danger ( this could mean garnish wage , property lien , lawsuit or other legal trouble ) When you apply for other loan of your own , this loan will apply to your debt/income ratio , and apply to your credit score , possibly negatively effect your ability to borrow in the future If they default on the loan , not only will you be mad at them for not hold up their end of the agreement , they may be mad at you for not take over payment for them . If they need a co-borrower , it mean the bank think that they be not a good loan risk , and by their calculation they wo n't be able to pay back the loan . Usually when someone be unable to pay a loan , it be n't for lack of try . Thus , your know their good character probably count for little when the chip be down . If the bank think the math wo n't work out , it probably wo n't and you will be the one leave to pick up the piece . Now , all that say , if my sister or parent be die of cancer and cosign a loan wa the only way to cure them , I might consider cosign on a loan with them , if that wa the only option . But , I would bet that 99.9 % of such case be not so dire , and your would-be co-borrower will survive with out the co-sign .
[QUESTION]:What be future and how be they different from option ?
[ANSWER]:Cart 's answer be basically correct , but I 'd like to elaborate : A future contract obligate both the buyer of a contract and the seller of a contract to conduct the underlie transaction ( settle ) at the agreed-upon future date and price write into the contract . Aside from settlement , the only other way either party can get out of the transaction be to initiate a close transaction , which mean : The party that sell the contract buy back another similar contract to close his position . The party that buy the contract can sell the contract on to somebody else . Whereas , an option contract provide the buyer of the option with the choice of complete the transaction . Because it 's a choice , the buyer can choose to walk away from the transaction if the option exercise price be not attractive relative to the underlie stock price at the date write into the contract . When an option buyer walk away , the option be say to have expire . However – and this be the part I think need elaboration – the original seller ( writer ) of the option contract doe n't have a choice . If a buyer choose to exercise the option contract the seller write , the seller be obligate to conduct the transaction . In such a case , the seller 's option contract be say to have be assign . Only if the buyer choose not to exercise doe the seller 's obligation go away . Before the option expire , the option seller can close their position by initiate a close transaction . But , the seller ca n't simply walk away like the option buyer can .
[QUESTION]:What 's the best way to get cash for an old car ?
[ANSWER]:I would list it on Kijiji , Autotrader , or Craigslist . A lot of people be often look for old car to just get around locally . Especially around winter time . Or consider post on some bulletin board in local college .
[QUESTION]:What be good game to play to teach young child about save money ?
[ANSWER]:I find this great resource at MarketWatch.com - a list on online game that help parent teach kid about save and finance , set up by age group . Here 's an example of some of the content : For child six to nine : www.fleetkids.com , sponsor by the Fleet Bank , ha great game -- like `` Buy lo , Sell hi '' and `` Chunka Change '' -- that teach kid about spend and save . Kids can compete for prize such a computer and backpack for their school .
[QUESTION]:How do you make sure your child 's birthday party doe n't break the bank ?
[ANSWER]:Having do a party at an indoor playground ( it wa n't a bad a $ 500 but still wa n't cheap ) , I 'm think of try some other idea , here be some idea that I 've try and come across through friend : Host the party at home Build the loot bag with item from a dollar store [ you would be surprise how impress kid be with key chain flashlight or FM radio ] Bake a cake [ from scratch or mix : - ) ] If it 's summer consider a splash pad [ A friend of mine do this and I wa surprise how much the kid love it ] Order pizza [ Party size ] One friend have a reptile theme party - it wa in their home and the reptile curator go to their home [ not for the faint of heart ] Try a pool party [ depend on the private rate if you go to a community pool ] Rent a hot game for your console if you have an X-box , PS3 , Wii I 'm assume you be do this for kid 5 to 12 .
[QUESTION]:How do you save money on clothe and shoe for your family ?
[ANSWER]:I feel the same way too ! With two kid , I feel like I be spend what it would cost to run a small country just on clothe , shoe , jacket , replace everything a it be grow out of ! A few thing I do : I shop in affordable place and check out sale , and look for the cut thing I can find there in a reasonable price range . If you be n't browse in the $ 60 baby dress , you be n't tempt by them . I do n't go look at $ 60 shirt for my son , he 's five and he doe n't need a $ 60 shirt . I also really only shop for him two or three time a year for clothe ... back to school and early spring be the big one . For fall I get him five pair of jean , maybe 8 top , new sock , etc . I 'll add in a couple of heavy sweatshirt , etc a I go , but I really do n't browse for him ... it 's too easy to find something to buy ! I look for inexpensive line for the thing that do n't really matter ... bright T 's for my son for summer that just get dirty and spill on , sleeper , sock , pj 's , etc . Joe Fresh , Walmart , Old Navy , Costco . Then I choose a few thing that I know I want brand name or more stylish option for , and find way to buy them more cheaply . These might be thing like logo 'd fleece top , trendy jacket , thing where the style be actually notice . I buy jean at Old Navy for my son when they be on sale , I buy Gusti/Genevieve LaPierre snowsuit at Sears when they be 40 % off in Sept/Oct . The Childrens ' Place ha good quality , stylish clothe for kid and if you watch , they always have deal on their jean or top ... then I stock up . And for young kid , Old Navy and The Children 's Place jean have adjustable waistband . I 've already unroll cuff and let out the waist in my son 's back to school jean . I have friend who be start to take in bag of too-small clothe to consignment shop ... if they come away with $ 100 , it 's still $ 100 ! For preteen and teen kid who want certain brand , etc , I think it be very reasonable to say `` we will pay x for each pair of jean , or x for winter boot . If you want to throw in some babysitting/birthday money and go buy something more expensive , you be welcome to do so ! '' That way , you be still pay for basic , but they can feel like they be n't stick wear thing they do n't like . Tell them ... you can buy 5 top at $ x each for back to school , or 10 top at $ x . And lastly , and most sadly of all : buy le .. and stop shop . There , I say it out loud . I try to be careful of what I buy , but I still find thing I buy that be never wear . Now I keep a return basket in laundry/mudroom ... if I do n't love it , if it seem impractical now that I get it home , if I want it just in case item # 1 do n't work ... it go in the basket . And I return them . I suck it up , I take it with me and go get my money back . Mistakes can be fix if the item have n't be wear or wash .
[QUESTION]:What doe Chapter 11 Bankruptcy mean to an investor hold share of a Chapter 11 Company ?
[ANSWER]:If you 've get share in a company that 's file for U.S. Chapter 11 bankruptcy , that suck , it really doe . I 've be there before and you may lose your entire investment . If there 's still a market for your share and you can sell them , you may want to just accept the loss and get out with what you can . However , share of bankrupt company be often delist once bankrupt , since the company no long meet minimum exchange list requirement . If you 're stick hold share with no market , you could lose everything – but that 's not always the case : Chapter 11 be n't total and final bankruptcy where the company cease to exist after liquidation of it asset to pay off it debt . Rather , Chapter 11 be a section of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code that permit a company to attempt to reorganize ( or renegotiate ) it debt obligation . During Chapter 11 reorganization , a company can negotiate with it creditor for a good arrangement . They typically need to demonstrate to creditor that without the burden of the heavy debt , they could achieve profitability . Such reorganization often involve creditor take complete or majority ownership of the company when it emerge from Chapter 11 through a debt-for-equity swap . That 's why you , a an investor before the bankruptcy , be very likely to get nothing or just penny on the dollar . Any equity you may be leave hold will be considerably dilute in value . It 's rare that shareholder before a Chapter 11 bankruptcy still retain any equity after the company emerge from Chapter 11 , but it be possible . But it vary from bankruptcy to bankruptcy and it can be complex a montyloree point out . Investopedia ha a great article : An Overview of Corporate Bankruptcy . Here 's an excerpt : If a company you 've get a stake in file for bankruptcy , chance be you 'll get back penny to the dollar . Different bankruptcy proceed or file generally give some idea a to whether the average investor will get back all or a portion of his investment , but even that be determine on a case-by-case basis . There be also a peck order of creditor and investor of who get pay back first , second and last . In this article , we 'll explain what happen when a public company file for protection under U.S. bankruptcy law and how it affect investor . [ ... ] How It Affects Investors [ ... ] When your company go bankrupt , there be a very good chance you will not get back the full value of your investment . In fact , there be a chance you wo n't get anything back . [ ... ] Wikipedia ha a good article on Chapter 11 bankruptcy at Chapter 11 , Title 11 , United States Code .
[QUESTION]:How can one get their FICO/credit score for free ? ( really free )
[ANSWER]:As of 2014 , this answer be deprecate . Read answer here for recent development up to January 2015 . You can get a free credit report yearly , but you do n't get your credit score , just the content of your report . This be useful to make sure your credit history be correct , etc . To get that , visit annualcreditreport.com . Another site which will give you your score for free , really free with no string attach , be creditkarma.com , which give you your TransUnion credit score and full TransUnion credit report . The site be run by TransUnion and support via advertise . At this point Equifax and Experian offer similar service via subscription , but not for free . Update 8/14/2015 : CreditKarma now offer the Equifax information a part of their service .
[QUESTION]:What be a good way to save money on car expense ?
[ANSWER]:Apparently , if you keep your tire ' air fill to the recommend level , your car will burn le gas . I love this article at WikiHow , which confirm what I have hear about air in tire , and have others to suggest , such a remove unnecessary item from inside and on your car ( such a bike rack , trailer ball ) a they can add to your car 's overall weight , cause more drag and use more gas .
[QUESTION]:How can I reduce my home 's monthly electricity and water expense ?
[ANSWER]:There be some gadget , but they be pretty pricey . One be here : energymonitor.com and the other here : theenergydetective.com/index.html The second one be pretty cool because it can connect to your computer wirelessly and create a database of your usage that you can access , view trend , etc . But they be still pretty expensive and it may be a good idea to just watch your consumption by hand , ie turn off light when you leave room , turn off the TV and computer , do n't leave the fridge door open and get everything you need from the fridge at once . As for water , there be gadget that help there too , and arent very pricey . I get a low flow showerhead with additional feature that help reserve water and heat cost . I review the device here : http : //www.pffirewall.com/moneysaving/roadrunner-evolve-eco-wallet-smart-shower/
[QUESTION]:Are there any services/sites/organizations/clubs at which video game can be trade ?
[ANSWER]:There certainly be . One that be gain some steam be http : //www.swaptree.com/ , they offer swap of book , dvd , music , and game .
[QUESTION]:Is Real Estate ever a BAD investment ? If so , when ?
[ANSWER]:No , it can really not . Look at Detroit , which ha lose a million resident over the past few decade . There be plenty of real estate which will not go for anything like it wa sell . Other market be very risky , like Florida , where speculator drive too much of the price for it to be stable . You have to be sure to buy on the downturn . A lot of price drop in real estate be mask because seller just do n't sell , so you do n't really know how low the price be if you absolutely have to sell . In general , in most of America , anyway , you can expect Real Estate to keep up with inflation , but not do much good than that . It be the rental income or the leverage ( if you buy with a mortgage ) that make most of the return . In urban market that be get an influx of people and industry , however , Real Estate can indeed outpace inflation , but the number of market that do this be rare . Also , if you look at it strictly a an investment ( a oppose to the question of `` Is it worth it to own my own home ? '' ) there be a lot of additional cost that you have to recoup , from property tax to bill , rental headache etc . It 's an investment like any other , and should be approach with the same due diligence .
[QUESTION]:What be my % return on investment for various home renovation upon resale of my house ?
[ANSWER]:I think these number be very location specific . Those house flipper tv show love to toss them out because they make great graphic , but they be nonetheless subjective . The only way I know how to guess the value of your home be to get comp . ( What similar home in your local region sell for recently , withing a small radius such a a quarter or half mile . ) So to decide your ROI figure out your home current resale value . Use one of dozen of home price estimator for this . Example 100K house , estimate value after add a bath $ 120K , but the bathroom cost $ 10K to install . ( 120 / 100 ) - 1 = .2 or 20 % increase in the home value . Increase be $ 20K , but since the bathroom cost $ 10K your ROI be only $ 10k . ( be my math correct ? ) But that doe n't tell you what new drape , or update carpet will get you . Since you ca n't measure those number in any realistic way , you be stick rely on the gut of a real estate agent , which be n't mathematical and therefore something I ca n't trust . For the little thing , they be item that you would want to just make look and feel nice if you be sell the home . Things I have learn : Avoid Junky Lowes or Home Depot fixture and part . If you buy the cheap one then your home look like every cruddy apartment build in your city . Hire a pro for thing that need to pas inspection Get your permit . Upgrades do n't count if they be n't document Consider a big picture . I do one room at a time in my house and now the house reflect that . I should have plan the whole house stylewise , even if I only do one thing at a time . Never never never big the best or nice house on the street . Do n't be the bad , do n't be the best .
[QUESTION]:How can I save on bank charge ?
[ANSWER]:You really should be able to avoid bank charge entirely . If you 're pay for a check account , know that there be one available for free , even without a minimum balance . Same go for credit card . There be plenty of no-annual-fee card out there , so unless you 're get fabulous reward that make it worth it , never pay an annual fee . Avoid ATM fee by avoid the ATM , get cash back at store or take it out at the bank . Overdraft fee and other penalty can be avoid by keep an eye on your balance and keep a register . Take advantage of email or text notification that many bank offer when your account balance go below a certain amount , or your credit card get close to it maximum . And I agree with MrChrister that many fee will be refund if you 've make a one-time mistake . Talk with a customer service rep , apologize , emphasize that you have a good record of on-time payment , and ask if the fee can be take off your account .
[QUESTION]:I 'm build a family budget . What be a realistic and reasonable amount to set aside each week for `` entertainment/misc . `` ?
[ANSWER]:How much have you be spend ? I take that number and shave a bite off so it would be a challenge but not impossible to obtain . I also try not to limit my kid 's fun because I want to save money . In our house , for our area and our idea of fun , we budget almost $ 200/month . That really might not do for a large family with old kid though .
[QUESTION]:How can I reduce the cost of have a cell phone ?
[ANSWER]:I have a have a TON of success by negotiate . Just talk to your current carrier and let them know that you ca n't afford it and there be other more reasonable option out there and they will most likely be will to help you out . I write a few post about how to negotiate with wireless carrier a well a one detail my success .
[QUESTION]:Does there exist a website that list manufacturer of generic , store-brand item ? Are private label brand worth it ?
[ANSWER]:Unfortunately private label brand be like a badly keep secret . People can guess who 's actually manufacture a product but no one will confirm directly . The manufacturer and the retailer typically have an agreement not to disclose the information . The be several reason for this : The manufacturer make a premium version of the product and doe not wish to see sale lose to the normally low cost alternative . The retailer wish to capitalize on it brand . The retailer may wish to have the flexibility to change manufacturer at any time . This allow the same brand to be use . e.g . The change in vendor for Girl Guide Cookies in Canada several year ago . The vanilla never taste quite the same . : - ( The only time there be an exception to this rule be when there be a serious health/safety concern with the product which result in a recall . This be not always limit to the private label a most recall be typically issue by manufacturer for a range of product . As a general rule of thumb most private label brand be a good if not good than premium brand . You just need to try them out to see if they meet your need . Usually this be inexpensive trial since they be price low . For example , I switch to private label diaper and find them just a good a the # 1 and # 2 brand .
[QUESTION]:Is it financially-beneficial ( tax-wise ) for couple to be marry , or to remain common-law , in Canada ?
[ANSWER]:The area most people benefit from be : Pooling resource : for income tax there really be no advantage to marriage over common-law status . All the same deduction be available . Sharing health and dental benefit : there be no special status associate with marriage over common-law Income Splitting would be a benefit that be currently not available in Canada . It be currently available in the United States , although I be not sure if it be offer to common-law a well a marry couple . The benefit of marriage vs. common-law be typically in succession handle . The nature of common-law allow for the possibility of multiple concurrent spouse i.e . if there be a dishonest individual there could be several common-law spouse at the same time . In the event of no will then it would be the first claim to be settle that would be address . However the possibility still exist that a second claim could come forward to contest the estate . Then it would be for the court to decide . A marriage contract be more legally bind since it exclude all others ( one can only be marry to one person serially at a time in Canada ) .
[QUESTION]:What 's the best way to manage all the 401K account I 've accumulate from my past job ?
[ANSWER]:I roll mine over from the company I wa at into my own brokerage house . You ca n't roll them into a Roth IRA , so I need to setup a traditional IRA . There be paperwork your old job can provide you . I have to put in some mail address , some account number and turn them in . My broke receive it , I choose what I want to invest it in and that wa that . No tax penalty or early withdrawal penalty . The key to avoid penalty be to have your past employer send the money directly to another retirement fund , not send a check to you .
[QUESTION]:Is sell your house without an agent worth the hassle ?
[ANSWER]:I wo n't discus the current market a much a I will address the title question . Is sell your house without an agent worth the hassle ? It depend on who you be . Take a good hard look at yourself and ask yourself - do I know anything about house ? the market ? the paperwork involve in a sale ? do I like talk with people I do n't know ? be I comfortable share my opinion , advise others , negotiate ? doe anyone ever say I could sell ice to an Eskimo ? be I familiar with other neighbourhood , feature , benefit , nearby amenity , comparable home , design element , etc ? Am I available , do I have time to do show , can I handle the communication , appointment , etc necessary to show the home ? What be a reasonable ask price ? How do I arrive at it ? How will I justify it to a buyer ? There be a great deal more involve with sell a home than many people think . If you read through the above list and think , I do n't even know where I would start to talk about any of this , chance be you either need an agent , or assistance from someone you trust who can help you in these area . I watch a neighbour sell his home privately a year or two ago . He write up a great ad with a popular company that support private seller . The home have undergo many upgrade , the ad rave about them and all other relate info , the price wa realistic in the market at the time , and he wa a gregarious , confident guy who work in sale . He have no problem take call , answer question , and have enough handyman experience and reno background that he could speak confidently about the condition of the home . He get a great price , over ask , in about 20 day . Contrast this to another person I watch list her home privately . She wa quiet , a teacher , with an unassuming , though lovely personality . The home need some upgrade but wa solid and attractive , the ad wa more generic , the photo be flat and unexciting . Same great neighbourhood , but you 'd never guess it from the ad . Same website . Similar market time . She reduce , then reduce again . I think it take six month before it finally sell . I could n't have imagine her sell anything , much le a house . Or negotiate . Some people just do n't have that sale personality . Of course it 's much , much cheap to do it on your own . But first ask yourself , be you up for the challenge ?
[QUESTION]:What kind of traditional IRA should I use to hold fund from old employer 401K plan ?
[ANSWER]:Magazines like SmartMoney often have an annual issue that review broke . One broke may have a wide variety of no-fee mutual fund , and if that 's your priority , then the stock commission may be a moot issue for you . In general , you ca n't go wrong with a Fidelity or Schwab , and to choose investment within the account with an eye toward low expense .
[QUESTION]:What be cover by CDIC save deposit insurance ?
[ANSWER]:CDIC cover deposit at financial institution ... typically bank and trust company ... insurance company and co-op have their own version of it . The limit be $ 100,000 per account . This can be in thing like bank account , GICs , term deposit , etc . Terms of up to 5 year be cover . You can have more than one account at an institution and have them both insure . For example , an open or non-registerd account be insure separately from a RRSP account , and if you have a joint account , that be also separate . In addition to the above , you would be separately insure if you have deposit at different institution , for example , 2 different bank .
[QUESTION]:What be some good way to control cost for grocery ?
[ANSWER]:For a while I try shop multiple grocery store , check flier each week from three different store and then make the trip to all three store to save ten cent on each item . After a couple month , I decide it just wa n't worth it . So , I pick my favorite store . I shop once a week , after review the flier and make a list . I clip coupon and try to only buy what 's on my list . ( I confess that coupon sometimes get me to buy a brand or item I would n't have otherwise ... it 's my weakness ! ) The big place that we save money though , be by pay attention to meat price . I know that chicken and pork go on sale for $ 1.99/lb every 4 to 6 week at my grocery store . When it doe , I buy a enough to last until the next sale , and freeze it in single-meal portion . Steak and fish be special treat , but on the rare occasion that they 're le than $ 4/lb , I 'll buy those . We also try to limit our meat consumption to every-other-day . It 's not worth it for me to ob over the price of ketchup that I buy twice a year , but on expensive item like meat , and item we use daily , I become familiar with their regular price and sale price , and buy extra when it 's on sale . If , like me , you do n't have room in your brain to keep track of the price of everything , stick with the thing you spend the most on , either because they 're expensive , or you buy a lot .
[QUESTION]:Why Are Credit Card Rates Increasing / Credit Limits Falling ?
[ANSWER]:Because people be go deep into debt and file for bankruptcy more often , there be more risk on behalf of the credit company . Therefore , they limit their risk by low limit and increase interest . For every person that go bankrupt , there might be 10 that pay that new high interest rate , thereby net a profit even though they lose out completely on the one customer . The recent legislation limit how and under what circumstance rate be adjust and raise , but not forbid . As for the fact that these bank take tax money under the idea ( we all think ) I see two point of view . We never should have have the credit we do , so they be correct and you ( like me and million of others ) be suffer for their prior mistake . It be an honest attempt to correct the system for long term stability even if we suffer in the short term . We give them tax money , they need to not screw u over . In response to the still freeze credit market I would suggest penalty tax to company that do not lend . Penalties to company that do not modify mortgage . The second you take government money be the last second a you be entitle to a profit of anything . Furthermore , we the people buy you and we the people get to decide your salary . The bottom line be there be truth in both statement . Things be totally screw up right now because we ALL make mistake in the past try to get a big profit or own a big house . There be those among u who do n't make a mistake , and those among u who make nothing but mistake . As a society , we have to pay the piper either way . The best thing you can do now be pay down your debt , live simply and spend your money wisely .
[QUESTION]:Should I buy individual bond for my retirement portfolio , or stick to funds/ETFs ?
[ANSWER]:I do n't like buy individual bond for my own portfolio . I actually use to buy long-term government strip bond ( Canadas or provincial bond ) but I stop . Here be some reason why : My broke allow me to purchase bond via their web application . However , to sell a bond , I have to call in to the fixed-income trade desk . That wa inconvenient . ( But your broke may be different . ) Bonds do n't typically trade on a formal exchange . So , there 's no cheap & easy way ( a far a I know ) to get an independent quote for a bond 's value – I have to trust what my broke say my bond wa worth when assess my portfolio performance . I ask my broke once how they arrive at the `` market value '' show – i.e . whether it wa last bid , ask , or actual trade – and I wa tell they use a third party bond quotation / valuation information provider for the data , and that quote be an estimate of what the bond would be worth , base on similar bond . I quickly learn that wa n't the value I could actually get when sell it : When you 're deal with your broke to buy and sell bond , you 're likely deal with theirs or a relate investment bank which make a market for specific issue of bond . While I wa n't be charge an explicit commission to buy or sell bond , it wa evident the broke make money off the spread : That be , the difference between what they would be will to sell a bond for and what they would be will to buy that same bond for . They will buy your bond back from you cheap than what they could turn around and sell it to somebody else for . That 's why they do n't charge an explicit commission ... it 's build in and hide ! Anyway , when I finally discover my broke would seldom actually offer me the `` market value '' quote for my bond ( typically , it would be buy back for a few percent le than it be theoretically worth ) , I give up . I do n't think bond simply be liquid enough , nor the cost transparent enough for retail investor . ( Or maybe it 's just me : - ) However , I do think bond remain an important part of a diversify portfolio : Bonds ought to be represent in a diversify portfolio use low-cost bond index mutual fund or exchange-traded fund . Since these fund buy & sell bond in large quantity , they get a good deal on the spread . So , while you do pay an explicit management fee for a fund , you be probably save since you 're not get shaft on the spread .
[QUESTION]:What size `` nest egg '' should my husband and I have , and by what age ?
[ANSWER]:I would focus first on maxing out your RRSPs ( or 401k ) each year , and once you 've do that , try to put another 10 % of your income away into unregistered long term growth save . Let 's say you 're 30 and you 've be do that since you graduate 7 year ago , and maybe you average 8 % p.a . return and an average of $ 50k per year salary ( a a round number ) . I would say you should have 60k to 120k in straight up investment around age 30 . If that 's the case , you 're probably well on your way to a very comfortable retirement .
[QUESTION]:How much money/time should be re-invested in your own business , a a contractor ?
[ANSWER]:Hmmm ... I be self employ .. and I spend what ever time be necessary to learn the require skill ... this year I spend hundred of hour learn about website development . Ultimately it 's your choice ... if you can outsource some of the learn curve , why not ... You either need to have the skill yourself , or know people who can do the work for you . BTW .. find the right people be another skill .
[QUESTION]:Do I have to pay tax on income from my website or profit ?
[ANSWER]:I be not an accountant , but I do run a business in the UK and my understand be that it 's a threshold thing , which I believe be £2,500 . Assuming you do n't currently have to submit self assessment , and your additional income from all source other than employment ( for which you already pay tax ) be le than £2,500 , you do n't have to declare it . Above this level you have to submit self assessment . More information can be find here I also find that HMRC be quite helpful - give them a call and ask .
[QUESTION]:How do currency market work ? What factor be behind why currency go up or down ?
[ANSWER]:Q : How do currency market work ? A : The FX ( foreign exchange ) market work very much like the stock market where potential buy party bid $ Y of country 1 's currency to buy $ 1 in country 2 's currency . Potential sell party sell ( ask ) $ 1 of country 2 's currency for $ Y of country 1 's currency . Like the stock market , there be also a swap , future and option in this market . Q : What factor be behind why currency go up or down ? A : Just like any open market , currency go up and down base on supply and demand . Many factor affect the supply and demand of a particular currency . Some be list well by the other post . Q : What role do government , central bank , institution , and trader have in the process ? A : It 's common practice that gov'ts intervene to `` control '' the value of currency . For example , although it 's not general public knowledge , the Canadian gov't be actively purchase up US dollar in the FX market in an effort to stop the US/Canadian exchange rate from drop far . This ha dramatic economic consequence for the Canadian ecomony if the Canadian dollar be to strengthen too far and too quickly .
[QUESTION]:What be good tip for someone start out to establish good credit history ?
[ANSWER]:The two most important thing you need to do in order to build great credit be 1 ) Pay each bill on time or ahead of time . 2 ) Keep the balance on your credit card a close to zero a you possibly can . Doing these two thing will keep your credit score a high a it can possibly be . Also try sigining up to receive email notice to financial blog like http : //honestbanker.blogspot.com they always have good tip on how to improve your credit , repair it , or build it , among lot of other thing .
[QUESTION]:Can slow down your lifestyle save you money ?
[ANSWER]:I 've find at various time we 've spend a lot le when we 've be absorb by `` cheap pastime '' or passion , such a : video game book decide to organize a room start a website : ) write some code It 's incredible how fast some thing can burn through your money : movie din out go out for lunch get-togethers with friend or relative travel home renovation procrastination ( it 's easy to buy an exercise machine than to actually use it ) '' hobby '' ( scrapbooking , collect , autos/motorcycles )
[QUESTION]:It be legal for a retailer/store or other business to refuse $ 50 & $ 100 bill or other legal tender , e.g . penny ?
[ANSWER]:I look this up on Wikipedia , and wa hop the answer would be `` no - store can not refuse legal tender '' , but unfortunately , it 's not the case ! If the retailer want to go to the length of refuse certain denomination to protect themselves from counterfeit currency , they be fully within their right to do so . The `` Legal Tender '' page on Wikipedia say this about Canadian bill : [ ... ] Retailers in Canada may refuse bank note without break the law . According to legal guideline , the method of payment ha to be mutually agree upon by the party involve with the transaction . For example , convenience store may refuse $ 100 bank note if they feel that would put them at risk of be counterfeit victim [ ... ] What be interest about what I find out , be that legal tender can not be refuse if it be in repayment of an exist debt ( i.e . not a store transaction for which there exist no previous debt ) . So you could offload your $ 100 bill when repay your Sears credit card account ( or pay in penny if you want to ! ) and they could n't refuse you !
[QUESTION]:How old must you be to apply for a bank credit card , store credit , or cash advance loan ?
[ANSWER]:New legislation in the US aim to protect young borrower . ( Just what you be hop ! ) See Title III here . My understand of the new law be that individual 18 to 20 year old apply for a credit card be require to either 1 ) have a parent/guardian co-sign , 2 ) prove they could independently repay the credit be offer , or 3 ) take a special financial education course for young consumer . It also require parent ( or legal guardian , spouse , etc ) approval for a credit limit increase on a card that be co-sign by that parent , etc .
[QUESTION]:Saving $ 1,000+ per month…what should I do with it ?
[ANSWER]:If you can get a rate of save that be high than your debt , you save . If you ca n't then you pay off your debt . That make the most of the money you have . Also to think about : what be you goal ? Do you want to own a home , start a family , far your education , move to a new town ? All of these you would need to save up for . If you can do these large transaction in cash you will be good off . If it be me I would do what I think be a parrot of Dave Ramsay 's advice Pay off credit card and other unsecured debt . Save up several month of live expense a cash . Put that in an accessible place and earn a bite on it . Contribute 100 % to a retirement account . ( If you start now , you can achieve amaze thing when you retire ) Pay off that low interest debt Invest a little for fun Save up for a big purchase Enjoy your extra money . Congratulations by the way . It be n't easy to do what you have accomplish and you will lead a simple life if you do n't have to worry about money everyday .
[QUESTION]:In Canada , can I deduct my mortgage if run a business from my home ?
[ANSWER]:You can claim a deduction only if all of your business be conduct from the home , i.e . your home be your principal place of business - not just if you work from home sometimes . The CRA ( Canada Revenue Agency ) ha pretty strict guideline list here , but once you 're sure you qualify for a deduction , the next step would be to determine what portion of your home qualify . You can not attempt to deduct your entire mortgage simply because you run your business out of your home . The portion of your mortgage and other relate & allowable home expense deduction ha to be pro-rated to be equal to or le than the portion of your home you use for business . Simply put , if your business be operate out of a 120 sq-ft self-contained space , and your home 's total square-footage be 2400 sq-ft , you can deduct 5 % of your expense ( 120/2,400 = 0.05 ) . Hope this help !
[QUESTION]:Home Renovations be expensive .. Should I only pay cash for them ?
[ANSWER]:Is it a safety thing ? If the heat pump go out you replace it immediately , if your floor look bad but you be n't trip , I would suggest save . Use the extra time to find a great deal and educate yourself on your option . Maybe even take a class and learn to do it yourself . In these rough time , anything I can save for and pay cash I would . The exception be if you can finance with 0 % interest for a period of time and you have enough money to pay that off . The last consideration I can think of be if you plan to sell the home soon ? For that you might be get more value than the loan and a real estate agent would be probably know best .
[QUESTION]:Is a fixed-price natural gas or electricity contract likely to save money ?
[ANSWER]:In my area , the fix price be base on an average . My gas company will look at my previous month ( six month if I remember correctly ) payment and give me an average base on that amount . Then I be contract for a year base on that average . If I low my cost , I 'm under contract and will not see the save but if I go over for some reason , I will save money there . It really depend on how your utility company work so I would check with them , look at your previous bill cycle and determine if the plan will possibly save you money . Of course some thing ca n't be plan for such a the economic downturn like someone else mention .
[QUESTION]:How much be inflation ?
[ANSWER]:There be a thing call the consumer price index ( CPI ) There be a basket of good that the people who keep the index basically shop for . It be much more detail for the sake of accuracy , but bottom line be they shop for the same stuff each year . They measure the difference from year to year and that give you a pretty good idea of inflation from a regular person point of view . http : //www.inflationdata.com/Inflation/Consumer_Price_Index/HistoricalCPI.aspx But it be n't without it fault , people bicker about the methodology and what constitute the index . http : //www.investopedia.com/articles/07/consumerpriceindex.asp ? viewed=1
[QUESTION]:Are all financial advisor compensate in the same way ?
[ANSWER]:No , they certainly be not compensate the same way . Some be pay by commission that they earn from the product they sell ( ie , certain mutual fund , insurance , etc . ) Others be pay for their advice base on an hourly fee , or a percentage of the portfolio you have to invest . This be a great question , because too many of u just assume that if someone be in the business , they will give trustworthy advice . This may certainly be the case , but think about it , the financial planner at your bank ( who also be a mutual fund specialist - just flip that handy business card over ) be employ by Bank X . Bank X sell mutual fund , GIC 's , insurance , all kind of great product . That Bank X employee be not likely to tell you about product from Bank Z down the street that might be a good fit for you . Find a fee base planner , someone you can pay by the hour for advice , and let them help you review product across the industry . It 's like ask your bank for mortgage advice ... they will discus the option THEY offer , but may not tell you about a deal down the street . Using a mortgage broke help you find the best deal across the board . I believe the current issue of Moneysense magazine ha an insert discuss planner . Their magazine and website ( www.moneysense.ca ) be good source of reliable , Canadian financial advice .
[QUESTION]:How doe the price of oil influence the value of currency ?
[ANSWER]:From an investor 's standpoint , if the value of crude oil increase , economy that be oil dependent become more favourable ( oil company will be more profitable ) . Therefore , investor will find that country 's currency more attractive in the foreign exchange market .
[QUESTION]:How long do I have to make an adjustment to my income tax file ?
[ANSWER]:The maximum period that you can refile an adjustment be 10 year prior to the year you ask for a T1 adjustment . Only request relate to tax year end in any of the 10 calendar year before the year you make the request will be consider . For example , a request make in 2009 must relate to the 1999 or a subsequent tax year to be consider . There be no charge for request an adjustment but if the refiling result in tax owe then there may be an interest charge an amount owe .
[QUESTION]:How doe the concept of negative interest rate work ? Are there any example of this ?
[ANSWER]:Negative interest rate already exist . Like the after tax real interest rate on US T-bills ha be negative for 60 year ( Refer to A Negative Equilibrium Interest Rate , by Moshe Levy , Haim Levy and Avi Edry ) . And in period of price inflation , of course , the monetary base be under a real negative interest rate , a well a asset with `` too low '' nominal interest rate . Many economist like Paul Krugman , Greg Mankiw and Willem Buiter recently mention that the equlibrium interest rate also currently be negative and even a nominal 0 % be not sensible at all . E.g . here : Negative interest rate : when be they come to a central bank near you ? Further , even if the the real interest rate be negative , it still can be too high ! Too high mean that it could still be above the equilibrium interest rate if that be even deep negative . How the equilibrium interest rate can be negative be easy to imagine : Credit be basically intertemporal trade . And the interest rate be the price for intertemporal trade . If more people want to save money for their retirement then people want ( and can ! ) borrow for the current interest rate , then the interest rate ha to drop . And if even at 0 % more people want to save money , the interest rate ha to fall below 0 % to reach equilibrium . The limit be the interest rate on the monetary base , which can not go below nominally 0 % . Actually , only cash be a problem , a you could not force anyone to receive the negative interest ( which mean : pay for keep cash ) . As long a the only way be price inflation , it unfortunately always mean more indeptness . If no one else can , the government have to . Thats always the problem with minimum price guarantee : Either the government have to force someone to pay the lift price or the government ha to pay it themselves . All this be teach to economic student in the first two year . Just that almost no one apply such simple market mechanism to money . Instead most economist think that money be just a measure . Thanks to Krugman , Mankiw and Buiter and some others to start break this error .
[QUESTION]:Online tutorial for calculate DCF ( Discounted Cash Flow ) ?
[ANSWER]:Here 's a link to an online calculator employ the Discounted Cash Flow method : Discounted Cash Flows Calculator . Description : This calculator find the fair value of a stock investment the theoretically correct way , a the present value of future earn . You can find company earn via the box below . [ ... ] They also provide a link to the follow relevant article : Investment Valuation : A Little Theory . Excerpt : A company be valuable to stockholder for the same reason that a bond be valuable to bondholder : both be expect to generate cash for year into the future . Company profit be more volatile than bond coupon , but a an investor your task be the same in both case : make a reasonable prediction about future earn , and then `` discount '' them by calculate how much they be worth today . ( And then you do n't buy unless you can get a purchase price that 's le than the sum of these present value , to make sure ownership will be worth the headache . ) [ ... ]
[QUESTION]:How do credit score work ? How do they differ from credit rat ?
[ANSWER]:Credit rat be the same a credit score , but they very different from a credit report . A credit score be a calculate number base on a usually secret formula that attempt to quantify with math a consistent number that rank everybody equally and uniformly a to the risk they present to a lender . Basically , we be all just a number ; the high the good . Your credit report be a detail list of all your account , how well you pay them and if you be behind or have settle them a agree . It be a detail history of how you use credit , who you have credit from , how long you have have credit , and how much credit and debt you carry . A credit report rely on lender honestly and accurately state how your account be perform with them . Some radio show host ( Clark Howard ) say that up to 70 % of United States citizen have a mistake on their credit report . The credit report be the source of value that be compute into your credit score . By and large , your credit score give a lender a good idea if you be acceptable , but if you number be on the line , they MIGHT choose to read your credit report to make a decision by a human . Your credit score be how retail store can offer and immediately approve store card . If you number be high enough , credit you get . Source : http : //www.annualcreditreport.com/ EDIT : I do n't read well the first time , but sine I type it I will leave it here . Sorry for rush and not read well .
[QUESTION]:How often should I check my own credit score ? If I do so , will my own inquiry reflect poorly on my score ?
[ANSWER]:My knowledge be mostly of US law and rule , so I ca n't say for sure what apply to Canada You do not usually check your credit score , you usually check your credit report . Your score be the calculate number that be use to represent you a a single value to a lender , while your report be a list of all the account and your stand with them . In the US , you be untitled to a single credit report from each of the three major bureau once a year . http : //www.annualcreditreport.com/ be the only site you should get your report from . Some people choose to get a report every three month ( once from each bureau ) while others choose to get all three at once . If you have a major purchase or suspect identity theft , definitely get a report and make sure you start clear it up by write letter and file with the form each of the credit bureau provide for just that purpose . As for check your score , I do n't really see the need for it . It be an interest thing , once you know your report be clean and accurate , you can pretty much guess your number within 50 point . If you be shop for a major item and plan to finance ( like a car or a house ) try to consolidate all your credit application around the same couple of week period to prevent the hard lookup from affect your score . Hard lookup be when you be ask for credit , soft lookup be everything else . Also , unless you KNOW you have be a victim of identity theft , do n't bother with a credit monitor service . Once you know a baseline that your report be clean , just keep an eye on all your account and you should know what your report say . Also , those credit protection and identity theft service that cost $ 10/month do n't do anything that you ca n't do yourself . They write letter to get your off the pre-approved list , they request a lock on your credit report from the bureau , and put your phone on the do not call list . All stuff you have the right to do on your own .
[QUESTION]:How much life insurance do I need ?
[ANSWER]:If I remember the information in `` The Wealthy Barber '' correctly , he say : Before you 're marry , you need almost none . When you 're marry , but before kid , if both people be employ you need almost none . In the case where one person be still go to school , make sure you get enough on the work person so the other person could finish their degree . Once you have kid , you need a lot more . You want to make sure that the other person doe n't have to sell the house . You also want enough capital that it essentially replace your income for the next 20 year . That way it 's enough to get the kid out the door without compromise the way you live now . After that , you probably have some retirement save anyway . Just get enough that the house will be pay off and the other person can live comfortably . And a someone once say to me , `` make sure you 're worth more alive than dead ! '' : - )
[QUESTION]:What be the option industry change about option symbol in February , 2010 ?
[ANSWER]:The change be generally know a the Options Symbology Initiative ( or `` OSI '' ) and there be a highly comprehensive guide to what occur here . The basic gist of what occur wa a shift FROM : A cod system in which a short ( 3 to 5 letter symbol ) could be use , but the symbol require a data source to determine what they mean . MSQ AD use to be a MSFT Jan 20 option , but you have to look up MSQ in a table to know that . TO : A system in which much long symbol be need , but they contain all the information require to identify a unique option : DELL 4.000 C 5/16/2010 be n't easy to type , but once you know how to read it , it 's easy to see that it 's an option on DELL , expire on May 16th 2010 , be a call ( rather than a put , ) and ha a strike price of 4 . As to why they do it , there be a number of benefit , but most important reason be this one : they be run out of symbol . The number of permutation of 3-5 letter symbol have be exceed by the number of option that have be list , result in the need to `` recycle '' symbol . This mean that a current option symbol would be the same a an old one , in some case on a different stock , which wa wreak havoc on historical data .
[QUESTION]:Is it good for a public company to increase it dividend , or institute a share buyback ?
[ANSWER]:In some sense , the share repurchase program be good if the company doe not foresee the same profit level down the road . Paying a dividend for several year and then suddenly not pay or reduce a dividend be view a a `` slap in the face '' by investor . Executing a share repurchase program one year and then not the next be not view a negatively . From an investor 's standpoint , I would say a dividend be prefer over a share repurchase program for a similar reason . Typically company that pay a dividend have be do so for quite some time and even increase it over time a the company increase profit . So , it can be assume that if a company start pay a dividend , it will do so for the long-run .
[QUESTION]:What low-fee & liquid exchange-traded index fund / ETFs should I consider hold in a retirement portfolio ?
[ANSWER]:Here 's a dump from what I use . Some be a bite more expensive than those that you post . The second column be the expense ratio . The third column be the category I 've assign in my spreadsheet -- it 's how I manage my rebalancing among different class . `` US-LC '' be large cap , MC be mid cap , SC be small cap . `` Intl-Dev '' be international stock from develop economy , `` Emer '' be emerge economy . These have some overlap . I do n't have a specific way to handle this , I just keep an eye on the overall picture . ( E.g . I do n't overdo it on , say , BRIC + Brazil or SPY + S & P500 Growth . ) The main reason for each selection be that they provide exposure to a certain batch of security that I wa look for . In each type , I wa also aim for cheap and/or liquid like you . If there be substitute I should be look at for any of these that be cheap and/or more liquid , a comment would be great . High Volume : DIA 0.17 - Stocks-US-LC - Dow Industrials SPY 0.09 - Stocks-US-LC - S & P 500 GLD 0.40 - Gold - Gold Trust EFA 0.35 - Stocks-Intl-Dev - MCSI EAFE Index EWZ 0.61 - Stocks-Intl-Emer - MCSI Brazil Index LQD 0.15 - Bond-AAA - iBoxx Investment Grade HYG 0.50 - Bond-Junk - iBoxx Hi Yield Bond Mid Volume ( < 1mil shares/day ) : EEB 0.63 - Stocks-Intl-Emer - Guggenheim BRIC ICF 0.35 - REIT - Cohen & Steers Realty IEV 0.60 - Stocks-Intl-Dev - S & P Europe 350 IVW 0.18 - Stocks-US-LC - S & P 500 Growth IWR 0.20 - Stocks-US-MC - Russell Midcap VBK 0.14 - Stocks-US-SC - Small Cap Growth VBR 0.14 - Stocks-US-SC - Small Cap Value VPL 0.16 - Stocks-Intl-Dev - Pacific Low Volume ( < 50k shares/day ) : GMF 0.59 - Stocks-Intl-Emer - S & P Emerging Asia Pacific TLH 0.15 - Bonds-Gov - Lehman 10-20y USTreas DWM 0.19 - Stocks-Intl-Dev - DEFA These provide enough variety to cover the target allocation below . That allocation be just for retirement account ; I do n't consider any other save when I rebalance against this allocation . When it 's time to rebalance ( i.e . a couple of time a year when I realize that I have n't do it in several month ) , I update quote , look at the percentage assign to each category , and if anything be off the target by more than 1 % point I will buy/sell to adjust . ( I.e . if US-LC be 23 % , I sell enough to get back to 20 % , then use the cash to buy more of something else that be under the target . But if US-MC be 7.2 % I do n't worry about it . ) The 1 % threshold prevent unnecessary trade cost ; sometimes if everything be just over 1 % off I 'll let it slide . I generally try to stay away from time , but I do use some of that extra cash when there 's a panic ( after Jan-Feb '09 I have very little cash in the retirement account ) . I do n't have the source for this allocation any more , but it be the result of combine a half dozen or so sample allocation that I saw and tailor it for my goal . Stocks-US-LC 20.0 % Stocks-US-MC 8.0 % Stocks-US-SC 17.0 % Stocks-Intl-Dev 12.0 % Stocks-Intl-Emer 8.0 % Bonds-AAA 9.0 % Bonds-Gov 7.0 % Bonds-Junk 4.0 % REIT 5.0 % Energy 0.5 % Gold 4.5 % Cash 5.0 %
[QUESTION]:What kind of exchange-traded fund ( ETFs ) should specifically be avoid ?
[ANSWER]:Stay away from leverage or synthetic ETFs . This answer talk about why leverage ETFs be dangerous . There be numerous article to be find by search for `` leverage etf '' . My answer to this question link to one of the more accessible explanation I 've read .
[QUESTION]:Is there anything material I might own ( aside from a house ) that would increase in value ?
[ANSWER]:Wine be often invest , a be whisky and some other spirit And fortify wine that have particular vintage , such a port . You need to be particular about which one to invest in though . Top vintage of wine and port can rocket in value , to make the big profit you need to buy the new vintage before everyone realise it be go to be a top year and sell it some year late when it be approach it peak . This be obviously quite tricky to do . It be fairly common to buy a share in a particular batch of whisky ( proper Scottish single malt ) , then after 12-18 year when it be mature you can take your share in bottle or cash .
[QUESTION]:Use retirement to pay off debt : Should I cash in RRSP to repay Line of Credit ?
[ANSWER]:Nope , do n't do it . Basic math show this ... a you pay down your HELOC , you will pay le and le interest , eventually you will have it pay off . Look at what your RRSP will be worth even use a low rate of return over the next 20 or 30 year . It will likely show that it would really cost you a LOT more if you cash in .
[QUESTION]:Has anyone find U.S. Savings Bonds to be effective invest ?
[ANSWER]:I have several a well , ( acquire the same way a you ) and I be happy with the idea . They be very stable and that be the reason they pay so little . I do n't think you can get a low risk and medium ( or high ) return . The interest doe reset every six month so you do get a bite of the market , should the feed set interest rate high , you bond will eventually reflect that . Bonds and Certificates of Deposit be just one element of your investment portfolio . Put the money you ca n't lose into bond , the money you can into high risk stock . Bonds be great from our grandparent 's perspective because they be NOT go to lose value . ( My grandparent be depression era folk who want that stability ) They be trivial to give a gift . Most other investment form require a heavy bite more of legal work I would think .
[QUESTION]:How can I minimize loss on an upside down mortgage for a condo I no long live in ?
[ANSWER]:I have this exact same issue . Event the dollar amount be close . Here be how I be look at the problem . Option 1 : Walk away . Goodbye credit for 7+ year . Luckily I can operate in cash with the extra $ 800 per month , but should I have a non medical emergency I might be SOL . With a family I be not sure I be will to risk it . What if my car dy the month after I quit pay and the bank choose to foreclose ? What if my wife or I lose our job and we have no credit to live ? Option 2 : Short sale . Good if I can let it happen . I might or might not be on the hook for the balance depend on the state . If I be on the hook , okay , suck but I could live . If I be not on the hook , it be go to hurt my credit the same a foreclosure . It be n't easy , you need an experience real estate agent and a will bank . Option 3 : Keep pay . I be go for this . At the moment I can still afford the house even though it be at the expense of some luxury in my live . ( Cable TV , drive to work , a new computer ) . I be wager the market fix itself in the next several year . Should the S hit the fan in most any manner , the mortgage be the first thing I stop pay . I do n't know what other option I have . I ca n't re-fi ; too upside down . I ca n't sell ; the house be n't worth the mortgage ( and I do n't have the cash for the balance ) . I ca n't walk away ; the credit hit would n't be worth the monthly money gain . I have no emotion about the house . I be in a real bad investment and get out now seem like a good idea , but I be go to guess that have the house 10 year from now be good than not . I do n't care about the bank at all , nor do I feel I owe them the money because I take the loan . They assume risk loan me the money in the first place . The minute it get bad for me than for the bank ; I will stop pay . Summary Not much to do without a serious consequence . I would suggest hold out for the very long term if you feel you can . The best way to minimize the bad investment be to ride it out and pray it get good . I be think I be a landlord for the next 10 year .
[QUESTION]:How do I know my Citi credit card account number , for set up a Virtual Account Number ?
[ANSWER]:Thanks for join , and thank for your question ! From what I can tell , yes , the site you originally link to ( which I remove ) appear to be in the United States and therefore likely intend for U.S. cardholder only . Your profile indicate you be in the U.K . Most bank and credit card company do maintain separate system per country , for legal reason . Anyway , for your own security I suggest you contact your card issuer 's support telephone number and request the correct U.K. cardholder web site address from them directly . In general , you do n't want to be guess or search for the web site address for your credit card company or bank 's online self-service application . There be often `` impostor '' web site out there that just want your credit card number ! Instead , you should obtain the web site address for your financial service from trust source only ; i.e . direct from your bank or card issuer , such a on your print statement , or through their help line , or linked-to from their known-good home page . Finally , I do believe that your credit card number and account number be one and the same thing .
[QUESTION]:What be a good place to park a Christmas bonus ? Pay down the mortgage , TFSA or RRSP ?
[ANSWER]:If you have any non-mortgage debt – e.g . a credit card , a line of credit , a student loan , or a car loan – then I would pay that down first . The interest be pay on that kind of borrow money likely exceed what you could expect to earn in reasonable investment . If you do n't have any non-mortgage debt , and your mortgage be large ( e.g . think about it keep you up at night , sometimes : - ) then go for the the extra mortgage payment . Also go for the mortgage if you 're pay at a relatively high interest rate compare to what you could expect from investment . If your mortgage be small ( e.g . it 's go to be pay off in a few year ) and at a relatively low interest rate , then I would choose the RRSP or TFSA . Unless you 're in the top income tax bracket , I would favor the TFSA over RRSP – TFSAs be only introduce this year and any balance there already be likely tiny compare to the RRSP . For retirement , I 'm aim to have equal amount of RRSP and TFSA money . One option you have n't mention be an RESP . If you have child under the age of 18 , your bonus could also be use to make next year 's RESP contribution and qualify for the 20 % match Canada Education Savings Grant ( CESG ) from the government .
[QUESTION]:How doe the envelope budget system work ?
[ANSWER]:Basically the idea be you put the exact amount of cash into each envelope and set those aside for a specific purpose . Then when you go to accomplish that specific purpose such a grocery shop or whatever , you take the correspond envelope and use only the money that be inside . It be sort of a way to train yourself to follow budget very strictly . Many people stand by this method and it really be a simple a the website you link to . As far a track , this method really doe n't track anything aside from what you note down about where the money be go . Others have move on to use ING sub account to do the same thing but in a digital form .
[QUESTION]:Are insurance payouts taxable in Canada ?
[ANSWER]:If you be an individual purchase life insurance , then the proceed be not taxable when pay to the beneficiary .
[QUESTION]:Paying off loan early , or be there some way to reduce extortionate interest charge ?
[ANSWER]:It really depend on the term of your loan . For example , some loan have a pre-payment penalty . You will just have to ask your lender to know for sure . That say . In almost all case , you can save considerable interest by make extra payment towards the principal . Be careful though , some lender require you to specifically mark the payment to be apply to the loan principal and if you do n't designate it a such , they will just apply it a an early payment for future month and not reduce your balance until that future payment be due , which doe n't help at all . Another option to reduce your total interest cost , though more common for large loan like mortgage , be to split the payment into multiple part and pay more than once a month instead of a single payment each month . This only work if they calculate interest daily and would be useless if they do it monthly . They key be know the term of your loan . Despite it not be in their best interest ( pun intend ) , most lender will work with you on a strategy to help you minimize the interest cost in the name of customer service .
[QUESTION]:What be some tip for get the upper hand in car price negotiation ?
[ANSWER]:I read a really good tract that my credit union give me year ago write by a former car salesman about negotiation tactic with car dealer . Wish I could find it again , but I remember a few of the main point . 1 ) Never negotiate base on the monthly payment amount . Car salesman love to get you into think about the monthly loan payment and often start out by ask what you can afford for a payment . They know that they can essentially charge you whatever they want for the car and make the payment hit your budget by tweak the loan term ( length , down payment , etc . ) 2 ) ( New car only ) Do n't negotiate on the price directly . It be extremely hard to compare price between dealership because it be very hard to find exactly the same combination of option . Instead negotiate the markup amount over dealer invoice . For common car that they have a lot of competition on or too many of them on the lot , you might be able to get away with a little a $ 100 over invoice . In most situation you will pay between $ 300- $ 1000 markup over invoice . For high-demand or special order car you might have to pay several thousand over invoice . Ask to see the actual dealer invoice for the car before close the deal . Sometimes they will claim they do n't have it or ca n't show it to you . This be a lie . Walk away if they insist that it be n't available to show you . Something crook be afoot . Do n't listen to sob story about how much it cost to market and sell the car . The car dealership will 90 % of the time make more money on the deal than the difference between the dealer invoice and the purchase price . The manufacturer have '' holdbacks '' which be extra bonus for sell the car , also they make money on the finance and other aspect of the deal . This tactic require you have a reasonably good idea of the invoice price walk into the deal so you be n't negotiate blind . Luckily this information be available in numerous place like NADA and Edmunds.com This tactic also basically require you to pretty much know what car you want when you walk into the dealership , or at least that you narrow it down to a few . If you be still make up your mind , do not buy the car that day . You be at too much of an information disadvantage . Decide what you want ; go home and research it on the Internet ; then go back and buy it . 3 ) Negotiate one thing at a time A favorite shell game of car dealer be to get you to negotiate the car price , trade-in price , and finance all at one time . Unless you be a rain-man mathematical genius , do n't do it . Doing this make it easy for them to make concession on one thing and take them right back somewhere else . ( Minus $ 500 on the new car , plus $ 200 through an extra half point on finance , etc ) . To keep them from try to mix the finance in the deal , just tell them you already have your finance work out or be pay cash , even if you do n't . It be n't like they be go to complain if you change your mind after agree on a price for the car to go with them for finance . Update : This may backfire , with the hyper-competitive information rich environment , dealer be increasingly rely on the finance to earn their profit on the deal . Car dealer might be le will to negotiate on the car price if they know you be a cash buyer . Do n't let them re-open the negotiation on other item when discuss the trade-in , new car price , or finance term . See handle the trade-in below 4 ) Handling the Trade-In Before you even look at a new car , get a firm write quote for your trade-in . Alternately , you can do the same trick a the finance and claim you be n't trade in a car until you have complete negotiation on the new car price . It be a good idea to bring with you quote on your trade-in from other dealer to help your negotiate power . Most car dealer will buy your trade-in even if you do n't buy a car from them . They will argue that you will save on sale tax by do both transaction at the same time ( reduce the purchase price by the trade-in amount ) . It be true that you will save money , but when you do the math the amount be trivial . They want your trade more than they want to sell a new car , they make a much high profit on turn around use car than new one . 5 ) 99.9999 % of the time the `` I forget to mention '' extra item be a ripoff They make huge bonus for sell this extremely overprice junk you do n't need . Scotch-guard you can buy for le than $ 20 a can at a auto-parts store and spray on the seat yourself . You be a sucker to pay for it . Rust proof - Often just an overprice wax job . If you read carefully the factory warranty usually protect you against rust for a number of year anyway . Pin strip - Usually just a decal apply to the car , also very cheap to have do elsewhere . Extended warranty - Usually a rip-off , but not a frequently a the other item mention . If it be 3rd party , not from the manufacturer , it be always a rip off . Financing `` Insurance '' - For a few dollar more a month , they will give you insurance to make your car payment in case you become disable or unable to make your payment for some other prescribe reason . Think about it , YOU be pay for insurance to prevent the LOAN COMPANY from lose money in the event you get into trouble . Not worth the money . 6 ) Scrutinize everything on the sticker price I 've see car dealer have the ball to add a line item for `` Marketing Costs '' at around $ 500 , then claim with a straight face that unlike OTHER dealer they be just be upfront about their expense instead of hide them in the price of the car . Pure bunk . If you negotiate base on an offset from the invoice instead of sticker price it help you avoid all this nonsense since the manufacturer most assuredly do not include `` Marketing cost '' on the dealer invoice . 7 ) Call Around before close the deal Car dealer can be a little cranky about this , but they often have an `` Internet sale person '' assign to handle this type of deal . Once you know what you want , but before you buy , get the model number and all the code for the option then call 2-3 dealer and try to get a quote over the phone or e-mail on that exact car . Again , get the quote in term of markup from dealer invoice price , not sticker price . Going through the Internet sale guy doe n't at all mean you have to buy on the Internet , I still suggest go down to the dealership with the best price and test drive the car in person . The Internet guy be just a sale guy like all the rest of them and will be happy to meet with you and talk through the deal in-person . Update : After recently go through this process again and talk to a bunch of dealer , I have a few thing to add : 7a ) The price post on the Internet be often the dealer 's bottom line number . Because of site like AutoTrader and other car marketplace that let you shop the car across dealership , they have a lot of incentive to put their rock-bottom price online where they know people aggressively comparison shop . 7b ) Get the price of the car use the stock number from multiple source ( Autotrader , dealer web site , eBay Motors , etc . ) and find the low price advertise . Then either print or take a screenshot of that price . Dealers sometimes change their price ( up or down ) between the time you see it online and when you get to the dealership . I just buy a car where the price go up $ 1,000 overnight . The sale guy bring up the website and try to convince me that I wa confuse . I just pull up the screenshot on my iPhone and he stop argue . I 'm not certain , but I get the feel that there be some kind of bait-switch law that say if you can prove they post a price they have to honor it . In at least two dealership they get very contrite and back away slowly from their bargain position when I offer proof that they have post the car at a low price . 8 ) The sale guy ha ultimate authority on the deal and doe n't need approval Inevitably they will leave the room to `` run the deal by my boss/financing guy/mom '' This be just a game and negotiate trick to serve two purpose : - To keep you in the dealership long not shop at competitor . - So they can good-cop/bad-cop you in the negotiation on price . That be , insult your offer without make you upset at the guy in front of you . - To make it hard for you to walk out of the negotiation and compromise more readily . Let me clarify that last point . They be use a psychological sale trick to make you feel like an as for waste the guy 's time if you walk out on the deal after sit in his office all afternoon , especially since he give you free coffee and soda . Also , if you have personally invest a lot of time in the deal so far , it make you feel like you waste your own time if you do n't cross the goal line . As soon a one side of a negotiation forfeit the option to walk away from the deal , the power shift significantly to the other side . Bottom line : Do n't feel guilty about walk out if you ca n't get the deal you want . Remember , the sale guy be the one that drag this thing out by play hide-and-seek with you all day . He waste your time , not the reverse .
[QUESTION]:How be the Home Renovation Tax Credit ( HRTC ) suppose to be claim ? How doe the credit work ?
[ANSWER]:If you build the deck yourself , you will need to retain copy of your material receipt ( note that tool purchase can not be claim ) . If you hire a contractor to do the work , the contractor must be register for the GST and you must retain the invoice . All work must have be complete between January 27 , 2009 and February 1st , 2010 . The CRA will include a new schedule in your 2009 income tax package that will help you claim the tax credit . The credit be 15 % of the eligible expense over $ 1,000 but le than $ 10,000 . For example , if you spend $ 10,000 , your credit would be ( $ 10,000 - $ 1,000 ) x 15 % or $ 1,350 . The HRTC be a non-refundable tax credit , which be use to reduce your tax payable . It be not claim against income . For example , if you have tax payable for $ 12,000 for 2009 and have eligible HRTC expense of $ 10,000 , your tax bill would be reduce by $ 1,350 to $ 10,650 . The Canada Revenue Agency ha some excellent information on their website at the follow URL http : //www.cra-arc.gc.ca/tx/ndvdls/sgmnts/hmwnr/hrtc/menu-eng.html
[QUESTION]:Why doe a company pay dividend at all ?
[ANSWER]:The way I think of it be that investor give a company money look for the investment to grow . 1 ) Investors can invest in a fast grow , capital hungry company with the hope that the stock will go up so the investor can sell the stock and make a profit . 2 ) Mature company wo n't generally see the same growth but could be very profitable . To balance this they can opt to offer a divide a a way to encourage investor look for more stable investment with a steady return a upside . At then end of the day Investors do n't like see a pile of cash sit in a company bank account earn a small return . They prefer the company use the cash to generate growth or return it to investor who can then put it into another investment and hopefully make a large return . Dividends be a great way of return profit to the stockholder .
[QUESTION]:What be the p/e ratio ?
[ANSWER]:The price to earn ratio be a measure of the company 's current share price compare to the annual net earn per share . The other way to think about this be the number of year a company would take to pay back the share price if the earn stay constant . This ignore factor like inflation and can be use a an indicator of risk . During the internet bubble many company have P/E above 24 and no possible mean of earn back the share price that be inflate largely due to speculation . Most tool like Google Finance will list the P/E for a particular quote .
[QUESTION]:How do I get bill collector who call about people I know to stop call me ?
[ANSWER]:http : //www.ftc.gov/bcp/edu/pubs/consumer/credit/cre27.pdf if you be in the US Look at section 805 and 805 about how they may contact you and what they be and be n't allow to do . You can simply send a Certified Mail , Return Receipt ( CMRR ) letter explain you have no part of it , and that they be not allow to contact you by any mean other than in write from this point forward . Then you can either put return to sender on the letter ( it cost them money ) or open them and delete anything you do n't need .
[QUESTION]:Why do people use mortgage , when they could just pay for the house in full ?
[ANSWER]:Good question . If a person ha a choice , it be probably good to pay cash . But not always . If your large pile of cash can earn more be invest than cost of the interest to borrow a similar large pile of cash , it be beneficial to get a mortgage . Otherwise pay cash . EXAMPLE : A house cost $ 100,000 . I have $ 100,000 in extra money . I can invest that at 5 % per year , and I can borrow an additional $ 100,000 at 2 % per year . Since I can make more on my pile of cash than it cost to borrow another pile of cash , borrow be good . Compound interest be the most powerful force on the planet accord to Albert Einstein ( maybe ) . That be n't likely for most people though . Here be the result from some online financial calculator . http : //www.calcxml.com/do/hom03 Borrowing $ 100,000 with 2 % interest for 30 year will cost a total of $ 148,662 . You get $ 100,000 , but it cost you $ 48,662 to do it . http : //www.calcxml.com/do/sav07 Saving $ 100,000 in a bank account with an interest rate of 5 % will be worth $ 432,194 in 30 year . By not spend the money you will earn $ 332,194 over the course of 30 year . So if you can invest at 5 % and borrow at 2 % you will end up with $ 283,532 more than if you do n't . It be a pretty extreme example , and financial adviser make a lot of money figure out the complex nature of money to make situation like that possible .
[QUESTION]:At what age should I begin discuss money - save , spend , invest - with my child / child ?
[ANSWER]:We start with our son about age 5 or so . He wa at the time old enough to understand that you buy stuff use money . We do n't give allowance , rather we make up a job chart that he can put check on , and give him a small amount for each job that he doe . This be mean to enforce the idea of 'work and get pay , do n't work do n't get pay ' , and associate the concept of work and money . We also try to teach him the concept of give , spend and save , by have envelope with those word on them and divide the 'commission ' money between them . The give money be use for a charitable organization . The save money be use in a couple of way - either to save for a large item that he want , or to put into a save account . The spend it money he be free to buy whatever he want with . We get this plan from the Dave Ramsey Show , and it ha be really good so far . The best thing about it be that when we be at the store and he see something he want , we can ask 'did you bring your money ? ' This keep the beg down to a minimum and also help u teach him to make a list of stuff he want and can save for .
[QUESTION]:What to do with small dividend in brokerage account ?
[ANSWER]:Assuming you have no new cash to add to your account a gyurisc ha suggest , I would n't sweat the small amount – it doe n't hurt to have a little cash sit idle , even if you want to theoretically be fully invest ( the wisdom of do that , or not , perhaps worthy of another question : - ) If you try too hard to invest the small amount frequently , you 're likely to get kill on fee . My strategy ( if you could call it that ) be to simply let small amount accumulate until there 's enough to buy more share without pay too much commission . For instance , I do n't like fee to be more than 1 % of the share purchase , so with a $ 10 commission per trade , I prefer to make minimum $ 1000 purchase . I use to roll small amount of cash into a no-load money market fund I could buy without commission , and then purchase share when I hit the threshold , but even put the cash in a money market fund be n't worth the hassle today with rate of return from money market fund be close to zero .
[QUESTION]:How can I minimize the impact of the HST ?
[ANSWER]:The HST be a sale tax levy on most good and service . It be important to realize that in both BC and Ontario , the new HST doe not ( in most case ) result in an increase in sale tax pay . For example , in Ontario the PST be 8 % and when combine with the GST the sale tax be 13 % . With the HST , the GST and PST be replace by a single HST of 13 % so the tax bill doe not change . Some service that be previously not subject to PST ( such a mutual fund service fee and labour ) will now be subject to the HST . So some thing will increase . Over time , this should not have a material impact on the consumer due to the way business remit GST/HST .
[QUESTION]:What be a stock warrant ? How do warrant work ?
[ANSWER]:In general , a warrant be a security issue by a company allow the holder to purchase a certain number of a particular class of share at a certain price for a particular period of time . They differ from exchange trade option ( i.e . call and put ) in that they be issue by the company that issue the underlie share that they allow you to purchase whereas call and put be generally write by other investor . The other big difference between option and warrant be that option be standardize . Any call or put you buy on a particular exchange ha basically the same set of rule govern use . By contrast , a warrant may have all kind of stipulation that must occur before you can execute , such a price event ( e.g . only if the stock hit a certain price ) or business event ( e.g . only if the company elect to defer payment on a bond issue at the same time a the warrant ) . Warrants be generally a bad choice for small and inexperienced investor since each warrant issue be different and you often need a lawyer or other qualify professional to fully understand all to possible outcome .
[QUESTION]:What be `` prefer '' stock ? How be they different from normal ( common ) stock ?
[ANSWER]:It be just a different category of stock issue by a company that give it owner different treatment when it come to dividend payment and a few other financial transaction . Preferred stock holder get treat with some preference with regard to the company 's profit and asset . For example , dividend be typically guarantee to prefer stock holder whereas the leadership in the company can elect at any time not to pay dividend to common stockholder . In the event the company be liquidate , the prefer stockholder also get to be in line ahead of common stockholder when the asset be distribute .
[QUESTION]:Most common type of financial scam an individual investor should beware of ?
[ANSWER]:If an offer `` be only valid right now '' and `` if you do n't act immediately , it will expire '' that be almost always a scam .
[QUESTION]:Which U.S. online discount broke be the best value for money ?
[ANSWER]:I agree , Schwab representative be easy to reach and very helpful . I also like Vanguard for their low mutual fund fee , so I do my retirement stuff with them , but it take forever to get in touch with a representative just to ask a simple question . Now that they be low their rate to 8.95 per trade ( effective January 19th ) , the value for your money be even good .
[QUESTION]:In Canada how much be child care receipt worth for income tax ?
[ANSWER]:The tax benefit from deduct child-care expense be base on the marginal ( top ) tax rate , because you exclude the amount from your net income . But it be the spouse with the low net income who ha to take the deduction . $ 22,000 put you in the 15 % federal bracket and the 6.05 % Ontario bracket , so you 'll save 21 % of the claim amount or approximately $ 500 .
[QUESTION]:Should I `` hedge '' my IRA portfolio with a life cycle / target date mutual fund ?
[ANSWER]:First of all , it 's great you 're now take full advantage of your employer match – i.e . free money . Next , on the question of the use of a life cycle / target date fund a a `` hedge '' : Life cycle fund be introduce for hands-off , one-stop-shopping investor who do n't like a hassle or do n't understand . Such fund be gain in popularity : employer can use them a a default choice for automatic enrollment , which result in more participation in retirement save plan than if employee have to opt-in . I think life cycle fund be a good innovation for that reason . But , the add service and convenience typically come with high fee . If you be go to be hands-off , make sure you 're cost-conscious : Fees can devastate a portfolio 's performance . In your case , it sound like you be will to do some work for your portfolio . If you be confident that you 've choose a good equity glide path – that be , the initial and final stock/bond allocation and the rebalancing plan to get from one to the other – then you 're not go to benefit much by have a life cycle fund in your portfolio duplicate your own effort with inferior component . ( I assume you be select great low-cost , liquid index fund for your own strategy ! ) Life cycle be neat , but replicate them be n't rocket science . However , I see a few case in which life cycle fund may still be useful even if one ha make a decision to be more involve in portfolio construction : Similar to your case : You have a company save plan that you 're take advantage of because of a match contribution . Chances be your company plan doe n't offer a wide variety of fund . Since a life cycle fund be available , it can be a good choice for that account . But make sure fee be n't out of hand . If much lower-cost equity and bond fund be available , consider them instead . Let 's say you have another small account that you be unable to consolidate into your main account . ( e.g . a Traditional IRA vs. your Roth , and you do n't necessarily want to convert it . ) Even if that account have access to a wide variety of fund , it still might not be worth the add hassle or trade cost of own and rebalancing multiple fund inside the small account . There , perhaps , the life cycle fund can help you out , while you use your own strategy in your main account . Finally , let 's assume you have a single main account and you buy partially into the idea of a life cycle fund and you find a great one with low fee . Except : you want a bite of something else in your portfolio not provide by the life cycle fund , e.g . some more emerge market , international , or commodity stock exposure . ( Is this one reason you 're do it yourself ? ) In that case , where the life cycle fund doe n't quite have everything you want , you could still use it for the bulk of the portfolio ( e.g . 85-95 % ) and then select one or two specific additional ETFs to complement it . Just make sure you factor in those additional component into the overall equity weight and adjust your life cycle fund choice accordingly ( e.g . perhaps go more conservative in the life cycle , to compensate . ) I hope that help ! Additional References : Target date fund - Wikipedia The Pros and Cons of Target-Date Funds - Investopedia Asset Allocation Through ETFs and the Income Glide Path - Seeking Alpha .
[QUESTION]:How can I save money on a gym / fitness membership ? New Year 's Resolution be to get in shape - but on the cheap !
[ANSWER]:Shop around for Gym January be a great time to look because that 's when most people join and the gym be compete for your business . Also , look beyond the monthly due . Many gym will give free personal train session when you sign up - a necessity if you be serious about get in shape ! My gym offer a one time fee for 3 year . It cost around $ 600 which come out to under $ 17 a month . Not bad for a new modern state of the art gym .
[QUESTION]:How can I increase my hourly pay a a software developer ?
[ANSWER]:Short term : ask for a raise or look for a new job that pay more . Longer term : Expand your skill set . PHP programmer be plentiful . Unless you be exceptional ( e.g . you write a top sell PHP book ) you 're go to get PHP programmer market pay . If you have other skill you will be in high demand . Keep an eye on job post , what be they ask for ? Acquire those skill . Work on gain expertise in tool . What 's in use at your company ? What 's list in job post ? Expand the scope of your skill . Get outside just cod . Programmers be plentiful . Developers who understand the entire life cycle , understand the business , and can work with customer be rare . Learn about project management . Work on your `` soft skill '' -- listen , negotiation , etc . Get some `` domain specific '' knowledge . If you 're a developer with deep expertise about the Real Estate market , you 're in a small niche . Grow your personal network . Live and online . Meetups , Linkedin , etc . Some of these will also help increase the skill I mention above . Keep a journal of thing you 've do for the company . When it 's time to ask for a raise or for your review , thing will go more in your favor if you can show management a detail list of what you 've deliver for the company . ( This list also help you when it 's time to revise your resume -- lift out the high point and insert into your resume . ) In general , turn yourself into an indispensable asset to your company and/or client . And make sure they know it . ( Just do n't be an arrogant jerk in the process . )
[QUESTION]:What be the risk & reward of be a self-employed independent contractor / consultant vs. be a permanent employee ?
[ANSWER]:When I work for myself it wa bad because My work week wa often WAY more than 40 hour I have to do lot of thing in my job I do n't like Pay tax quarterly Send invoice Calculate mileage Register business name with municpalities and other bore paperwork . I have to fire people I have to get yell at by customer when I wa wrong or make a mistake I could n't get someone to cover for me No employer health benefit No employer match 401K No severance , cash in vacation or sick leave But I set my own hour I could work hard and make more , work le and earn le I do n't have to answer to a micromanaging bos No office politics Miller Time wa whenever I want My potential for earn wa limitless There be lot of tax break and program for save money a a business I get to hire people who be good worker and wa respect No micromanaging bos No do stuff I hat because it wa in my job description Ultimately I give up my business and go to work for a school teach , and through a series of other job end up in a very stable reliable trustworthy job . When I wa young the variable paycheck do n't outweigh the freedom . Now that I be a dad I only think about have insurance and a secure job . The other option to consider be have a regular job , and then do a little side work for yourself . You get all the benefit of both ( and all the detraction )
[QUESTION]:Do there exist legitimate Work-from-Home job opportunity ? Is there a website that list them ?
[ANSWER]:Here be two general `` rule of thumb '' that should keep you out of trouble when search for a legitimate work at home opportunity among the expanse of scam : You should never have to pay them anything , period . Any mention of you send them money for any reason indicate a scam . This be doubly true if they offer to send you money up-front and want a part of it send back or to someone else . Do n't re-mail thing for them If they want you to accept shipment and send them back out , or re-sell them on e-bay , etc . do n't do it . This be usually a front for fence ( launder ) steal property . If they be too eager to get your SSN , run Many fraud act like they have a job and just need your information to fill out tax form . This generally be NOT need for contractor , but can be legitimate if they be hire you a a full time W2 ( US ) employee . However , you really really need to check a company out and make sure it be legit before you give up this information . A red-flag be a company that ask for personal information too quickly , or doe n't seem interest in discuss other detail of the work . These job scam be a major source of identity theft . Some legitimate place to find work at home job : There be a number of online source that connect people who want to do freelance work to company that need the help . A major benefit be that many of these offer some kind of vet process for both end of the transaction and an escrow system to arrange the payment without give up too much sensitive information . The downside be that the site often take a cut of the deal ( 5-10 % or so ) . Here be a few I recomend E-Lance Pros : Larger jobs/more money potential Cons : You will probably need to spend more time set up a portfolio and may need to charge le until you build a reputation on the site to get the really good job . Typical Jobs : More skilled job like write article , build a web site , graphic design , etc . Amazon Mechanical Turks Program Pros : Easier to get job without much prep or sale work . Also , a lot more less-skilled job be available here . Cons : Jobs be usually really small , and pay a usually small piece rate . Typical Jobs : Proof a web-site or document for error . Visit a web-site and post review on other web-sites .
[QUESTION]:What be the interest rate online brokerage pay out tie to ?
[ANSWER]:The prime rate be the interest rate bank use amongst themselves to lend money to each other only . It be use a the basis ( sometimes ) for what interest rate bank charge you . The prime rate be base loosely on the Fed rate . There be a committee that meet regularly to set this and other industry interest rate . http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prime_rate I be not 100 % positive the follow be totally accurate The bank keep our deposit and pay u interest for do so . They be pay u interest because they take yours , mine and everybody el deposit a a large lump sum and invest that money . Sometimes a business loan , sometimes a mortgage and sometimes a credit card . The bank have a book of business that will be EXACTLY how much credit they have extend to everybody . But they do not keep that amount of cash in the vault , only some small percentage of that large amount . When I use my credit card and they need to transfer money to amazon.com , if they do n't happen to have enough cash that day , they will just borrow from another bank that doe , and the interest rate they pay to do so be the prime rate . Since they be pay interest on the money they borrow to pay the debt I charge because they tell me my credit wa worth so much ( ... ? ? ? ... ) they charge me a little bite more than that . Hence your credit card or mortgage 's APR be base on the prime rate . I THINK that be what they do If I be wrong leave a comment and I will update , or the mod can .
[QUESTION]:What doe market cap ( or market capitalization ) mean ?
[ANSWER]:Market cap be basically the amount of money that it would cost to buy all of the share of public stock in a company . Or share cost * number of outstanding share . It be a measure of how much a company be worth . http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Market_capitalization
[QUESTION]:What be the mean of `` short sell '' or `` go short '' a stock ?
[ANSWER]:This be a gross simplification a there be a few different way to do this . The principle overall be the same though . To short a stock , you borrow X share from a third party and sell them at the current price . You now owe the lender X share but have the proceed from the sale . If the share price fall you can buy back those share at the new low price , return them to the lender and pocket the difference . The risk come when the share price go the other way , you now owe the lender the new value of the share , so have to find some way to cover the difference . This happen a while back when Porsche make a fortune buy share in Volkswagen from short seller , and the price unexpectedly rise .
[QUESTION]:I receive an email from my credit card company title `` URGENT : Your VbV VISA Password ha expire ! '' Is it legitimate ?
[ANSWER]:It 's a fake ! Do n't fall for it or you 'll regret it ! This be a classic example of what be call a phishing attack . A phishing attack be a form of social engineer or pretexting where you be lead to believe through an official-looking email that the notice be from a legitimate source when , in fact , it be not . Cyber-criminals and online organize crime try to use phishing attack to trick you into reveal your credit card number , your bank account information , your Social Security Number ( SSN , United States ) or Social Insurance Number ( SIN , Canada ) or any other kind of personal information . Your bank , credit card company , or other financial account provider should never ask you in an email to visit their site through a link provide in the email . Never trust a hyperlink provide in an email — odds be good it lead to a fake site create by criminal ! When in doubt about such a message , do n't click anything . Contact your financial service provider by phone to inquire .
[QUESTION]:What be some way your family ha save money via resource-sharing or hand-me-down ?
[ANSWER]:Computers and digital camera be great candidate for hand down because they can still be useful long after they have start look date to the initial buyer . Buying DVDs be unfortunately more convenient than rent in my hometown , but we make up for this by a liberal borrow policy . And , perhaps most unusually , coupon -- the special discount that mail-order retailer like to send when it 's convenient for them to make a sale ( or just arbitrarily , really ) . Those often have complicate term so that they be only really interest if exactly two article be order , or the amount of the order exactly 80 EUR . A couple of person in the family be the specialist of these discount , and others can just tell them to watch for an interest item . They 'll place the order at the best time .
[QUESTION]:What be long-term care insurance ? How doe long-term care insurance work ?
[ANSWER]:Long-Term Care insurance help to alleviate the cost associate with nurse home care . Most policy today also either offer or include in-home coverage which would help defray the cost of a health care person come into your home to help you with your activity of daily live . LTCi work in one of two way ; reimbursement or indemnity . You essentially be purchase a pool of money that be design to pay x amount of money per day over y number of year . With reimbursement your policy would reimburse you for the cost of service that you receive up to your daily benefit amount . If you do not receive service then your daily benefit amount would remain in your pool of money . With indemnity benefit you will receive your daily amount regardless of whether you use that money or not . Anyone that would like option and choice during their retirement and elder year . The big benefit of LTCi be that it will allow you the decision of how long you stay in your home , which nurse home you go to and how much money will be pass on in your legacy .
[QUESTION]:What be value invest ? What be the key principle of value invest ?
[ANSWER]:Value invest be an investment approach that rely on buy security below their intrinsic value . There be two main concept ; one be the Intrinsic Value and the other be Margin of Safety . Intrinsic value be the value of the underlie business - if we be talk about stock - that can be calculate through carefully analyze the business look at all aspect of it . If there be an intrinsic value exist for a company then there be a price tag we can put on it share a well . Value invest be look to buy share well below it intrinsic value . It be important to know that there be no correct intrinsic value exist for a company and two people can come up with different figure , if they be present the same data . Calculating the intrinsic value for a business be the hard part of value invest . Margin of Safety be the difference between the buy price of a stock and it intrinsic value . Value investor be insist on buy stock well below their intrinsic value , where the margin of safety be 20 % -30 % or even more . This concept be protect them from poor decision and market downturn . It be also provide a room for error , when calculate the intrinsic value . The approach wa introduce by Benjamin Graham and David Dodd in a book call Security Analysis in 1934 . Other famous investor use this approach be Warren Buffet Books to read : The Little Book of Value Investing by Christopher H. Browne Value Investing : From Graham to Buffett and Beyond by Bruce Greenwals The Intelling Investor by Benjamin Graham and David Dodd Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits and Other Writing by Philip A. Fisher I would start to read the first two book first .
[QUESTION]:Can I use fund in my 403 ( b ) retirement plan for a first-time home purchase ?
[ANSWER]:Hi Alex . I 've be alert you 're seek a good answer to this question . ; - ) Please accept my apology for not come back to this question sooner – it get bury . : -/ No , in general you can not make an early withdrawal penalty-free from a 403 ( b ) account to use towards the purchase of a home . Withdrawals before age 59 1/2 be generally subject to the 10 % early withdrawal penalty , on top of ordinary income tax . Some 403 ( b ) plan may allow for a loan , but the availability and condition vary by plan . If you 'd consider a loan , you should check with your plan administrator or your plan 's Summary Plan Description – often available at one 's company intranet or HR web site . ( I do contract work for an HR consult firm that assist others in build such site , and SPDs be usually something make available for download in a `` Retirement '' or `` Wealth '' section of such web site . ) Note that a loan from a 403 ( b ) would need to be pay back into the plan over some period of time , e.g . 5 year , though I have come across example of some plan that do permit a long pay back period of 10 , 15 , even 30 year if the loan be use for a home purchase . But consider this article : The 403 ( b ) Loan : The New Debtors Prison ? Finally , to your last point : Yes , if you have an IRA , there be rule permit withdrawal of up to $ 10,000 penalty-free for use towards the purchase of a first home . See page 53 in IRS Publication 590 . There 's also a good article at Fool.com : All About IRAs - For First Time Home Buyers . Such a withdrawal from a traditional IRA remain subject to ordinary income tax . If have a Roth IRA , you can withdraw free of income tax but you need to pay attention to the Roth IRA 5 Year Rule . Additional Resources : 403 ( b ) wise - Frequently Asked Questions
[QUESTION]:Homeowners : How can you protect yourself from a financial worst-case scenario ?
[ANSWER]:Think about your priority in life . Everybody be a little different . In my case I have a wife and child , so these be priority for me , and you might have your own depend on your story . I need a place for my family to live I need my family to be able to eat I need a clothe for my family to wear . So if I lose my job , and I have no more money come in ( unemployment insurance run out , save deplete ) then the bank can have the house . I personally would probably drop the house long before it come to that point . The first thing you do be talk to your creditor and work out a deal . At the same time I would stop pay for ALL unnecessary thing ( cable TV , extra cell phone , automobile , leave light bulb on and turn the heat up over put on a sweater ) . If I ca n't get a good deal from the creditor , I would stop pay the mortgage , find a place to live ( family , friend , cheap apartment ) while the credit be still good . My advice be to get yourself setup while your credit be good and you have SOME money in the bank . Waiting until the bank decide to foreclose be probably go to make your hard .
[QUESTION]:How be 401 ( k ) , 403 ( b ) , and 457 ( b ) tax-advantaged retirement plan different ? How be they alike ?
[ANSWER]:Carol V. Calhoun of Calhoun Law Group say : The attractiveness of a 457 ( b ) plan a compare with a 403 ( b ) plan or a 401 ( k ) plan may vary greatly depend on the circumstance . For example , a state or local governmental entity other than a public school or university may need to have a 457 ( b ) plan , because it can not normally have either of the other type of plan . A private university that be tax-exempt under Internal Revenue Code ( `` I.R.C . '' ) § 501 ( c ) ( 3 ) but maintain a health maintenance organization that be tax-exempt under I.R.C . § 501 ( c ) ( 4 ) and/or taxable research subsidiary may prefer a 401 ( k ) plan , so that it can cover all employee under the same plan . A private school that doe not have affiliate , and want to provide only for salary reduction contribution , may find that a 403 ( b ) plan give it the great ability to cover rank-and-file employee while minimize administrative requirement . A public or private nonprofit school or university that maintain a qualify define contribution plan may want to have a separate 403 ( b ) plan a well , since it need not combine 403 ( b ) contribution with contribution to the school or university 's qualify plan in apply the I.R.C . § 415 ( c ) limit . She offer an amaze table compare the 457 ( b ) , 403 ( b ) , 401 ( k ) plan and the `` deem IRA '' .
[QUESTION]:Should we use an expect inheritance to invest in a rental property with cash , i.e . no mortgage ?
[ANSWER]:Portlander here too ! Have you make sure to consider the tax burden you will have from the inheritance ? Do you have any debt ? Pay them first . Sounds like you have a current mortgage . Pay that first before you invest . Do you have several month of expense in cash a an emergency fund ? Make sure you do . Do you have a fully fund retirement ? Pay that and any catch up . If you have child or plan to , be college pay for ? Investing in extra property be something that you should do when you be all pay up . You do n't want a job loss or other emergency make it impossible to keep the house you live in . What happen if you buy a house and then lose both your job ? Do you let the bank foreclose on both home ? I think you would be in a much more stable position own fully all your property . Once your first house be pay off , you can rent that or consider buy another . The key advice here be to stabilize and remove all your debt now . It be le excite but safe . But if you do n't owe any money . Go for it .
[QUESTION]:What be the best strategy to give pocket money or an allowance to child ?
[ANSWER]:Just speak from my experience here . When I wa young ( lol only 23 now ) , I do n't really get pocket money . If I want something I have to work for this , luckily at 13 I score a paper round gain £10 per week . I would personally say to encourage child to do some `` work '' , whether it a paper round , or even just house chore . I learn early on , that to get money you have to work for it . I 've always have a job since 13 , most of my college year I hold 2 job at a time , even 3 at 1 point . Many of my friend do n't work for their pocket money , they rely on handout , quite a few of these friend have late on in life take the easy route , not work and rely on state ( pocket money ) , or still have mummy and daddy pay for everything So my moral be ; do n't just give out willy-nilly , teach some value to money and it will go a long way ; ) /2 cent
[QUESTION]:How can put option be use to buy share at a low price ?
[ANSWER]:Cart 's answer describe well one aspect of put : protective put ; which mean use put a insurance against a decline in the price of share that you own . That 's a popular use of put . But I think the word of your question be angle for another strategy : Writing put . Consider : Cart 's strategy refer to the buyer of a put . But , on the transaction 's other side be a seller of the put – and ultimately somebody create or write that put contract in the first place ! That first seller of the put – that be , the seller that be n't just sell one they themselves buy – be the put writer . When you write a put , you be take on the obligation to buy the other side 's stock at the put exercise price if the stock price fall below that exercise price by the expiry date . For take on the obligation , you receive a premium , like how an insurance company charge a premium to insure against a loss . Example : Imagine ABC Co. stock be trade at $ 25.00 . You write a put contract agree to buy 100 share of ABC at $ 20.00 per share ( the exercise price ) by a give expiration date . Say you receive $ 2.00/share premium from the put buyer . You now have the obligation to purchase the share from the put buyer in the event they be below $ 20.00 per share when the option expire – or , technically any time before then , if the buyer choose to exercise the option early . Assuming no early assignment , one of two thing will happen at the option expiration date : ABC trade at or above $ 20.00 per share . In this case , the put option will expire worthless in the hand of the put buyer . You will have pocket the $ 200 and be absolve from your obligation . This case , where ABC trade above the exercise price , be the maximum profit potential . ABC trade below $ 20.00 per share . In this case , the put option will be assign and you 'll need to fork over $ 2000 to the put buyer in exchange for his 100 ABC share . If those share be worth le than $ 18.00 in the market , then you 've suffer a loss to the extent they be below that price ( time 100 ) , because remember – you pocket $ 200 premium in the first place . If the share be between $ 18.00 to $ 20.00 , you 're still profitable , but not to the full extent of the premium receive . You can see that by have write a put it 's possible to acquire ABC stock at a price low than the market price – because you receive some premium in the process of write your put . If you do n't `` succeed '' in acquire share on your first write ( because the share do n't get below the exercise price ) , you can continue to write put and collect premium until you do get assign . I have read the book `` Money for Nothing ( And Your Stocks for FREE ! ) '' by Canadian author Derek Foster . Despite the flashy title , the book essentially describe Derek 's strategy for write put against dividend-paying value stock he would love to own . Derek pick quality company that pay a dividend , and us put write to get in at lower-than-market price . Four Pillars review the book and interview Derek Foster : Money for Nothing : Book Review and Interview with Derek Foster . Writing put entail risk . If the stock price drop to zero then you 'll end up pay the put exercise price to acquire worthless share ! So your down-side can easily be multiple of the premium collect . Do n't do this until and unless you understand exactly how this work . It 's advance . Note also that your broke be n't likely to permit you to write put without have sufficient cash or margin in your account to cover the case where you be force to buy the stock . You 're good off have cash to secure your put buy , otherwise you may be force into leverage ( borrow ) when assign . Additional Resources : The Montreal Exchange option guide ( PDF ) that Cart already link to be an excellent free resource for learn about option . Refer to page 39 , `` Writing secure put option '' , for the strategy above . Other major option exchange and organization also provide high-quality free learn material : The Options Industry Council - Getting Started in Options . CBOE - The Options Institute
[QUESTION]:Trip Interruption insurance vs. Trip Cancellation insurance : what 's the difference ?
[ANSWER]:I find this very succinct answer at Squaremouth ( travel insurance comparison site ) : The “ trip cancellation ” benefit cover you in the event you have to cancel your trip due to a cover reason list in your travel insurance policy prior to your departure date . Trip interruption benefit cover you in the event you have to interrupt your trip for the same cover reason after your departure date , but before your schedule return date . You should definitely check the specific policy 's term and condition though , because there be a lot of conflict info out there .
[QUESTION]:What be mortgage insurance ? Do you have to have it , in order to be approve by a bank ?
[ANSWER]:Mortgage insurance protect a borrower against premature death , disability or both . The technical term be 'creditor insurance . ' While it be an important consideration , rarely be it 'required . ' Having say that , in some case a lender may approve a mortgage conditional on have some sort of protection in place , however , they can not require that you buy say insurance only from them . With creditor insurance if one of the borrower dy , the insurance pay off the mortgage in full , assume all criterion of the insurance have be satisfy . Similarly , if one of the borrower be unable to work due to disability ( definition of which vary may greatly depend on the lender ) then the insurance cover a predetermine amount of the monthly payment ( often 100 % ) for a predetermine amount of time ( that too can vary across lender ) . Keep in mind that creditor insurance , while beneficial in some case , be not necessarily the only option for borrower . There be value in look at what option be available on the individual life insurance side . Talking to an advisor will help you make the best choice for you . Hope that help and while it 's certainly not an exhaustive explanation of the option available , it give you an overview . @ littlerandy on twitter
[QUESTION]:Canadian income tax & charitable donation : How much be income tax reduce by donation ?
[ANSWER]:First , you file use federal schedule 1 and the correspond provincial form . Federally , the credit be a dollar for dollar reduction of the tax payable ( it be a non-refundable tax credit ) . For federal tax , the credit be 15 % of the first $ 200 of donation and 29 % on all amount over $ 200 . Be aware that the maximum you can claim be limit to 75 % of your net income ( the excess can be carry forward 5 year ) . See the article at http : //blog.taxresource.ca/charitable-donation-tax-credit/
[QUESTION]:U.S. income tax & charitable donation : How much be income tax reduce by donation ?
[ANSWER]:Charitable donation be deduct from your taxable income . The impact to the amount of tax you pay depend on your tax bracket . So if you be in a 25 % tax bracket you will save $ .25 per dollar that you donate to charity . There be limit to the amount of charitable donation you can claim depend on your file status ( single , marry , etc . ) and your taxable income . In order to claim charitable donation you have to itemize your deduction which mean that you ca n't use the 1040EZ form . Depending on your situation it may be good to take the standard deduction rather than itemize . The charitable organization will issue you a receipt for donation give during the tax year and you should receive that from them by the end of January . I believe you need to have a receipt in order to legally deduct the donation from your tax .
[QUESTION]:What be some good way to spend FSA money ?
[ANSWER]:Co-Pays . I know , with good medical , that 's just $ 10- $ 20 . Acupuncture , Chiropractic Care ( if not pay by your plan ) Eye Exam , often not cover so well . Eye Glasses . Often far high than the plan pay . Over the counter drug ( update - start 2011 these can only be reimburse if they be prescribe , probably more trouble than it 's worth ) , cold medicine , band-aids , ace bandage , heat pad . Birth control ( condom , foam , sponge , if you be worthy ) Any of those work for you ? Note , regulation permit the FSA administrator to allow up to $ 500 to rollover to the next year , check if your plan permit this .
[QUESTION]:UK income tax & charitable donation : How much be income tax reduce by donation ?
[ANSWER]:I 'm not yet familiar with U.K. tax , but I do know what to search for . I come across the follow reference – the first be definitive since it 's from the web site of Her Majesty 's Revenue and Customs – HMRC . What I find particularly interest be that HMRC 's `` Gift Aid '' mechanism provide for most of the tax relief to go back to the charity . Excerpts from HM Revenue & Customs : Giving to charity through Gift Aid : How Gift Aid work The Gift Aid scheme be for gift of money by UK taxpayer . Charities or CASCs take your donation - which be money you 've already pay tax on - and reclaim basic rate tax from HM Revenue & Customs ( HMRC ) on it 'gross' equivalent - the amount before basic rate tax wa deduct . Basic rate tax be 20 per cent , so this mean that if you give £10 use Gift Aid , it ’ s worth £12.50 to the charity . [ ... ] Claiming back high rate tax If you pay high rate tax , you can claim the difference between the high rate of tax ( 40 per cent ) and the basic rate of tax ( 20 per cent ) on the total ( gross ) value of your donation to the charity or CASC . For example , if you donate £100 , the total value of your donation to the charity be £125 - so you can claim back 20 per cent of this ( £25 ) for yourself . You can make this claim on your Self Assessment tax return if you be send one . [ ... ] See also HM Revenue & Customs : Gift Aid : the basic Excerpts from Gift Aid – Wikipedia , the free encyclopedia : Details Gift Aid allow individual who be subject to UK income tax , to complete a simple , short declaration that they be a UK taxpayer . Any cash donation that the taxpayer make to the charity after make a declaration be treat a be make after deduction of income tax at the basic rate [ ... ] and the charity can reclaim the basic rate income tax pay on the gift from HMRC . [ ... ] Higher-rate taxpayer can claim income tax relief , above and beyond the amount claim directly by the charity . [ ... ] Gift Aid can only be reclaim on money donate by UK taxpayer . Non-UK taxpayer can make donation but the donation will not be eligible for a tax reclaim from HMRC . [ ... ]
[QUESTION]:What be the important difference between mutual fund and Exchange Traded Funds ( ETFs ) ?
[ANSWER]:The main difference between an ETF and a mutual fund be liquidity and sometimes tax . ETFs and mutual fund can track a specific index with NO manager input , or be actively manage . Liquidity ETFs trade like a stock , so you can buy at 10am and sell at 11am if you wish . Mutual fund NAV ( NAV = Net Asset Value ) be calculate at the end of each business day , so there be no intraday trade . Also , ETFs be similar to stock in that you need a market buyer/seller whereas a mutual fund 's unit be sell back to itself . Mutual Funds can be close to trade , however it be rare . Tax treatment Both come down to the underlie hold in the fund or ETF . However , more often in Mutual Funds you could be stick pay someone else 's tax , not true with an ETF . For example , you buy an Equity Mutual Fund 5 year ago , you sell the fund yourself today for little to no gain . I buy the fund a month ago and the fund manager sell a bunch of the stock they buy for it 10 year ago for a hefty gain . I have a tax liability , you do not even though it be possible that neither of u have any gain in our pocket . It can even go one step far and 6 month from now I could be down money on paper and still have a tax liability . Expenses A Mutual Fund ha an MER or Management Expense Ratio , you pay it no matter what . If the fund ha a positive return of 12.5 % in any give year and it ha an MER of 2.5 % , then you be up 10 % . However if the fund lose 7.5 % with the same MER , you be down 10 % . An ETF usually , but not always , ha a small management fee ( typically 0.10-0.95 % ) but you will have trade cost associate with any trade . Risks involve in these a well a any investment be many and likely too long to go into here . However in general , if you have a Canadian Stock ETF it will have similar risk to a Canadian Equity Mutual Fund . I hope this help .
[QUESTION]:When will the U.K. convert to the Euro a an official currency ?
[ANSWER]:I read an account of why the U.K. do n't end up with the euro a it currency in David M. Smick 's great book The World Is Curved : Hidden Dangers to the Global Economy . Chapter 6 of the book be title `` Nothing Stays the Same : The 1992 Sterling Crisis . '' Here 's a very brief excerpt ; emphasis mine : [ ... ] As this story show , such blindness to the reality of a change world can be very dangerous . In this case , the result wa the brutal collapse of the British pound , which explain why the British people still use their own currency , the pound or sterling , and not the euro . The event that unfold in the autumn of 1992 be totally unforeseen , yet they reshape the European monetary world and represent a phenomenon that continue to impact global economy . [ ... ] Smick 's account of the event around 1992 run about 28 page . Here 's my version , in a nutshell : At the time , Britain wa part of the European Exchange Rate Mechanism , or ERM . The belief in Europe wa that by unite currency under a common mechanism , Europe could gain influence in international financial policy largely dominate by the United States . The ERM wa a precursor to monetary union . The Maastricht Treaty would eventually create the European Union and the euro . Britain join the ERM late than other nation , in 1990 , and after some controversy . Being part of the ERM require member nation to agree to expand and contract their currency only within certain agree upon limit call currency band . Due to the way this have be structure , Germany 's strong position place it at the top of the system . At some point in 1992 , Germany have raise interest rate to curb future inflation . However , Britain want Germany to cut rate – Britain wa not in a enviable a position , economically speak , and it currency wa under pressure . The currency band system would put Britain in a tight spot with Germany raise rate . Enter George Soros , the Hungarian billionaire , a.k.a . `` the man who break the Bank of England . '' Soros take a huge short position against the Sterling . He believe the Sterling wa overvalue relative to the German deutsche mark , and Britain would be force to devalue it currency and realign with respect to the ERM . Other trader follow and also sell the Sterling short . With much pressure on the currency , the Bank of England have to buy up Sterling in order to maintain it agreement under the ERM . Of course , they need to borrow other currency to do this . Soon the BoE wa in over it head defend the Sterling , realize the exchange rate it need to maintain under the ERM simply wa n't sustainable . Britain wa force to withdraw from the ERM on Black Wednesday , September 16th , 1992 . And so , Britain doe not use the euro today – and any talk of do so be politically controversial . Therefore I would n't bet on Britain adopt the euro any time soon – too many of the player be still in politics and remember 1992 well . I think if Britain adopt the euro be ever to happen , it will be when the memory of 1992 ha fade away . BTW , George Soros make off with more than US $ 1 billion . Soros be a very smart guy .
[QUESTION]:I keep receive letter from bank say I 'm pre-approved for credit . Is this junk mail ? Are they allow to do this ?
[ANSWER]:In the United States , we have some option to get off these list . You must provide these place your social security number ( which be scary ) but it be legit since in the US , your SSN be how they find you . http : //consumerist.com/2008/03/8-ways-to-opt-out-of-junk-mail-lists.html http : //www.ehow.co.uk/how_5742830_stop-credit-card-offers-phone.html Regarding your credit : they do a `` soft pull '' to verify if you have any credit , so they have pre-approved you , but if you actually sign up you authorize them to pull your credit for real . However until you authorize them to give you credit , their soft pull do not affect your credit negatively . I just get my credit report in the US , and it list all the soft pull and note they do not count against me . Here be an opt out link for Canada http : //www.the-cma.org/public.asp ? WCE=C=32|K=s224196 All I could find be a hint that you can pay to be on a list in the UK to avoid offer .
[QUESTION]:When apply for a mortgage , can it also cover outstanding debt ?
[ANSWER]:That really depend on the lender , and in the current climate this be extremely unlikely . In the past it wa possible to get a loan which be high than the value of the house ( deposit consider ) , usually on the basis that the buyer be go to improve the property ( extend , renovate , etc . ) and this increase the value of the property . Responsible lender require some evidence of the plan to do this , but le responsible one simply seem to have give the money . Here in the UK this wa often base on the assumption that property value tend to rise relatively quickly anyway so a seemingly-reasonable addition to the loan on top of the current value of the property will quickly be cover . That mean that indeed some people have be able to get a loan which be high than the cost of the purchase , even without concrete plan to actively increase the value of the property . Today the situation be quite different , lender be a lot more careful and I ca n't see this happen . All that aside - have it be possible , be it a good idea ? I find it difficult to come up with a blanket rule , it really depend on many factor - On the one hand mortgage interest rate tend to be significantly low than short term interest rate and from that point of view , it make sense , right ? ! However - they be usually very long term , often with limit ability to overpay , which mean the interest will be pay over a long period of time .
[QUESTION]:When change job , how can you protect yourself ?
[ANSWER]:You absolutely can go after compensation . As a hire manager in my previous role , a very similar thing happen - I offer someone a job ( in write ) and they accept it . Three day late , I wa tell to reduce the size of my department by 10 % , start with the one who have not yet start . Believe it or not , even though he wa n't even work at the time , he send a letter to H.R . explain the circumstance and say he have be `` counsel '' to request compensation on the basis of `` promissory breach '' or some such term ... and they pay him . Just be sure to keep every little scrap of paperwork from the company : offer letter , non-disclosure agreement , employee handbook , email , etc . - every bite of correspondence give to you by a ( potential ) employer indicate intent to hire you .
[QUESTION]:For a major expensive home renovation ( e.g . addition , finish basement , or new kitchen ) should one pay cash or finance with a loan ? Would such a loan be `` good '' debt ?
[ANSWER]:Reasons to pay with cash You do n't owe anything when it be do . You 'll spend LESS and tend to limit yourself to what you `` need '' instead of get renovation fever . Reasons to borrow Urgency ( you 've get a two bedroom house and kid number 6 will be bear in 4 month ) . You 've research the real estate market and by do the renovation you can add much more value to your house than the cost of the renovation . You love pay the bank money . Things to watch out for Getting into more debt total than your home be worth . Getting a bad loan ( typically go together with number one ) . Exceeding your budget with borrow money , or set a large budget aside than what be truly need because it be easy to borrow more money than you could save .
[QUESTION]:What be the difference between `` good debt '' vs. `` bad debt '' ?
[ANSWER]:The word `` good '' wa use in contrast to `` bad '' but these word be misuse here . There be three kind of debt : Debt for spend . Never go into debt to buy consumables , go out for a good time , for vacation , or other purchase with no last financial value . Debt for depreciate asset , such a car and sometimes thing like furniture . There be those who put this in the same category a the first , but I know many people who can budget a car payment and pay it off during the life of the car . In a sense , they be rent their car and pay interest while do so . Debt for appreciate , money-making asset . Mortgage and student loan be both often put into the good category . The house be the one purchase that , in theory , provide an immediate return . You know what it save you on the rent . You know what it cost you , after tax . If someone pay 20 % of their income toward their fix rate mortgage , and they 'd otherwise be pay 25 % to rent , and long term the house will keep up with inflation , it 's not bad in the sense that they need to aggressively get rid of it . Student loan be risky in that the return be not at all guarantee . I think that one ha to be careful not to graduate with such a loan burden that they start their life under a black cloud . Paying 10 % of your income for 10 year be pretty crazy , but some be in that position . Finally , some people consider all debt a bad debt , live beneath their mean to be debt free a soon a they can , and avoid borrow money .
[QUESTION]:When will Canada convert to the U.S. Dollar a an official currency ?
[ANSWER]:I do n't see country switch to the USD , I see country move away from it . The US ha the large peace time debt ever , be not be even close to fiscally responsible ( approve ~4 trillion budget ! ) and be face with 100 trillion in future commitment ( social security , medicare ) with a workforce ( tax base ) that be decrease a the baby boomer retire . When the US can not meet those obligation ( and most expert agree there be no hope of that anymore ) they will have to print money and devalue the currency .
[QUESTION]:What be Alternative Minimum Tax ( AMT ) and how doe AMT get calculate ? [ U.S . ]
[ANSWER]:With all the deduction , credit , and other shenanigan in the tax code , it ha become possible for more and more people to end up pay nothing in tax even though their income be relatively high . This be not good from a revenue point of view . The AMT be a way for the government to decide the discount you get be too many and that you indeed to owe tax money . The issue be of relevance today because of high home ownership and other offset , more and more people be subject to the alternative minimum tax than ever before . If you manually file your paperwork , be aware . If you make more than $ 75,000 a year and have some large deduction , you might be subject to the tax . Most ( if not all ) reputable accountant or file software will calculate the need for you . Be sure you know , because not pay when you should mean pay penalty if you be audit . The IRS doe not forget , nor doe it forgive . References : IRS Statement on Alternative Minimum Tax AMT Assistant AMT Calculation Form ( PDF ) SmartMoney.com article
[QUESTION]:Why do store and manufacturer use mail in rebate ? A scam , or be there a way to use them effectively ?
[ANSWER]:It 's an effective way to achieve market segmentation without have to ask your customer how rich they be , and you get the benefit of find out additional information like their address , email etc . The principle be similar to coupon on cereal box , anybody can get the rebate/discount if they go to the effort , but people who be cash rich/time poor be le likely to do so than those that really need the money . Joel Spolsky write about this and various other price mechanism a while back , I like to reference the article every few week . It 's well worth a read . Now , if you 're retire and live off of social security , $ 7 an hour sound pretty good , so you do it , but if you 're a stock analyst at Merrill Lynch get pay $ 12,000,000 a year to say nice thing about piece-of-junk Internet company , work for $ 7 an hour be a joke , and you 're not go to clip coupon . Heck , in one hour you could issue `` buy '' recommendation on ten piece-of-junk Internet company ! So coupon be a way for consumer product company to charge two different price and effectively segment their market into two . Mail-in rebate be pretty much the same a coupon , with some other twist like the fact that they reveal your address , so you can be direct market to in the future .
[QUESTION]:Help ! I 've cancel their service , but this company continue to bill my credit card an annual fee . What can I do ?
[ANSWER]:I 'm not a lawyer , and be certainly not familiar with your jurisdiction , but the general guideline I 've see around this kind of situation be : See if you can locate the original email . Generally it 's a good idea to archive important send mail and/or bcc yourself so you have a record that could be match to the server log . If you can locate the mail , forward it onto them again with a cover explain that you want to cancel your contract and have the charge refund . Either way you should phone them , if you have the email explain that you 're follow up on your email and would like to establish how the charge can be stop and refund . They may then sort it all out , maybe . If you have no record , you may just have to swallow the previous charge but make sure you get from them the exact procedure to cancel the contract . Follow that procedure to the letter request an acknowledgment ( and copy yourself again ) and follow up again with another call to ensure they be cancel the contract . If you still get nowhere , you should contact your credit card company to explain the situation and see what their process for deal with dispute be . This can be long and draw out though . If all else fail , you could just cancel the card , though I 'm not sure what liability you have to honour the contract . I cancel a card once to stop be charge by a particularly annoy company and have no problem , but I 'm not sure if that be a good way to deal with it in general .
[QUESTION]:Aside from have to re-establish credit & credit history , what be downside to declare personal bankruptcy ?
[ANSWER]:Well , there be a social stigma associate with bankruptcy , so there be that . As to your other question , they be go to vary by country . I 'll speak the what happen in the US . There be multiple type of bankruptcy , only the follow two be applicable to individual . Regardless of the type , it can legally remain on your credit for 10 year , although some credit agency only report them for 7 . Chapter 7 : This be the one you refer to where they wipe almost all of your debt . As you would expect , debt to the Government ( tax ) be exclude . This will obliterate your credit rat . Note : This often require liquidate all of your asset first and pay off a much a you can . Chapter 13 : This be where you work out a plan to pay back everyone , but legally get everyone off your back by buy more time and sometimes reduce the amount owe . It be not a severe on your credit . Up until a few year ago , you use to be able to choose which type of bankruptcy to file , but now I think the law require that you file a general bankruptcy claim and the judge decide which be appropriate . Here be a great article with more information on HowStuffWorks : Types of Bankruptcy Here be an article on the effect on your credit rat : Credit after Bankruptcy
[QUESTION]:What doe the term `` second mortgage '' mean ? Can I easily get one ?
[ANSWER]:Answering the first part , it be basically a home equity loan . You be take a loan out against available equity in your house . It generally be at a high interest rate than what you would get on your first mortgage .
[QUESTION]:When should I start an LLC for my side work ?
[ANSWER]:The major reason to start an LLC for side work be if you want the additional personal liability protection afford by one . If you 're operate a a sole proprietor , you may be expose yourself to liability : debt and judgment against your business can put your personal asset at risk ! So , if you 're intend to continue and grow your side work in the future , you ought to consider the LLC sooner than late . It 's also an important legal decision and you should consider seek a professional opinion . The Wall Street Journal ha a brief guide title How to Form an LLC . Here be some notable excerpt : A limit liability company , or LLC , be similar to a partnership but ha the legal protection of personal asset that a corporation offer without the burdensome formality , paperwork and fee . [ ... ] Some state charge annual fee and tax that can diminish the economic advantage of choose to become an LLC . Among LLC advantage : pass-through taxation – mean the profit and loss “ pas through ” the business to the individual own the business who report this information on their own personal tax return . The result can be pay le in tax , since profit be not tax at both the business level and the personal level . Another plus : Owners aren ’ t usually responsible for the company ’ s debt and liability . [ ... ] Also check out onstartups.com 's Startup 101 : Should You Form An Inc. or An LLC ? Here be some additional article that discus the advantage / disadvantage of form an LLC : Advantages of a Limited Liability Company ( LLC ) - allbusiness.com The Advantages of LLC As a Corporation - ehow.com LLC Advantages - gaebler.com
[QUESTION]:What be advantage & disadvantage of use a Peer-to-Peer lend site or network ?
[ANSWER]:Main advantage you be close to your lender , not some impersonal bank you be more likely to get a favorable rate more flexible term Main disadvantage You be close to your lender ( see advantage ) , it be not a bad a borrow money from your friend or relative , but the personal factor can come into play ( even though p2p lend site serve a a bite of buff ) . You need to be aware on how the lend site get pay and how much . Obviously you should not have to pay anything in advance to originate a loan ( those be generally scam ) . Finally a very subjective opinion , but I think in term of financial return p2p lend be not that great for lender , but good for borrower , precisely , because individual lender be not that great at determine credit risk of borrower . In any case it should not concern you too much , a long a you can get your loan .
[QUESTION]:What will happen to quarterly GST cheque when HST start in Ontario ?
[ANSWER]:Nothing significant will happen . The program will continue to operate a before . The GST/HST Credit program send cheque to people with low and modest income whether reside in a province with GST ( such a Ontario before July 1 , 2010 ) or a province with HST ( such a Ontario after July 1 , 2010 . ) For additional information on the GST/HST Credit program , please consult : GST/HST Credit at Service Canada . Goods and Services Tax/Harmonized Sales Tax ( GST/HST ) credit at Canada Revenue Agency .
<|endoftext|>
